STUDENT HANDBOOK
OF
INFORMATION
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.)
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER ENGINEERING
KALINGA INSTITUTE OF INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY
DEEMED TO BE UNIVERSITY
(u/s 3 of UGC Act, 1956)
BHUBANESWAR-751024
ODISHA – INDIA

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
“Education is the passport to the future, for tomorrow belongs to
those who prepare for it today.” — Malcolm X
School of Computer Engineering Page 2

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
CONTENTS
Item Page No.
ABOUT SCHOOL 5
ORDINANCES 6
RULES AND REGULATIONS 7
Sl. No. Item Page No.
R.1 Academic Calendar 7
R.2 Course Structure 7
R.3 Minor Discipline 8
R.4 Honours Courses 9
R.5 Course Committee 10
R.6 Registration 10
R.7 Attendance 11
R.8 Assessment procedure: Tests and Examinations 11
R.9 Grading system 12
R.10 Grade sheet 13
R.11 Declaration of results 14
R.12 Supplementary examination 14
R.13 Subjects registration for grade improvement 15
R.14 Summer vacation semesters 16
R.15 Internship 16
R.16 Semester exchange 16
R.17 Eligibility for award of the B.Tech. Degree 17
R.18 Maximum duration of the program 17
R.19 Scholarships 18
R.20 Students‟ conduct and disciplinary code 19
R.21 Power to modify 25
SUPPORT SERVICES
S.1 Library 25
S.2 Recreational facilities 26
S.3 Training and placement 26
S.4 Health care 26
S.5 Student activity center 27
S.6 Student counseling cell 27
S.7 Compliance cell 27
S.8 ICT cell 28
School of Computer Engineering Page 3

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Appendix
Sl. No. Item Page No.
A School Contact Persons 29
B University Contact Persons 31
C Recreational Facilities 32
D Academic Calendar 33
E Fee structure for Certificates & Reports Issuance 36
F University Ranking and Achievements 37
G Point of Contact for Requirement Redressal 38
School of Computer Engineering Page 4

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
ABOUT THE SCHOOL
The School of Computer Engineering, at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial
Technology Deemed to be University, Bhubaneswar was formed in the year
1997. The School offers B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. programme. The School
has a comprehensive curriculum that includes up-to-date courses on
nascent topics, including all aspects of Computer Hardware and Software,
emphasizing practical learning.
The School has state-of-the-art infrastructure and computing equipment
supported by high-speed Ethernet and wireless networks. Our faculty
members aim at delivering top class education by blending their rich
research experience with classroom teaching. The School has undertaken
research projects funded both by government agencies and private sectors.
The strategic commitment of KIIT Deemed to be University provides the road
map for the journey towards excellence. These strategies include the Vision
and Mission that would be instrumental in placing KIIT among the top
academic institutions of the world. The strategies will create new
opportunities for the faculties and the students to enhance knowledge,
perform cutting-edge research, and develop professional skills. The ultimate
aim is to provide the students with an educational training that emphasizes
innovation, social awareness, and professional ethics and nurture
leadership skills. A resourceful environment to promote creativity and
entrepreneurship amongst researchers is also being developed while
maintaining sustainable goals, upholding the values of the highest
professional ethics, and enriching the lives of humanity.
Prof. (Dr.) Achyuta Samanta, Founder of KIIT & KISS, is an eminent
educationist, philanthropist, and social worker. He spares no effort to groom
our students in their chosen discipline and broaden their mindsets and
create positive attitudes, thus equipping them with all qualities to make
them an asset to society. At the forefront of his vision lay his unrelenting
quest to ensure that millions of marginalized people across the country
benefited from educational inclusion. His unparalleled initiatives have
translated the dreams of many into a productive reality. His foresight,
leadership, and determination propelled the KIIT group of institutions to
attain many milestones. Still, most importantly, his philanthropic pursuits
continue to comfort the lives of countless people in education, healthcare,
and across the various section of society.
Prof.(Dr.) Achyuta Samanta and his work can be followed @
achyutasamanta.com kiss.ac.in
www.facebook.com/AchyutaSamanta twitter.com/achyuta_samanta
The University is ranked as one of the topmost Engineering Universities
across the country by various survey agencies, as given in the Appendix F.
School of Computer Engineering Page 5

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
ORDINANCES
O.1 All B.Tech. programmes offered by the University shall be governed by
the B. Tech Rules and Regulations.
O.2 Admission to B.Tech. degree program will be made through a KIIT Joint
Entrance Examination (KIITEE) conducted by KIIT. Based on the KIITEE
rank, the applicants will be called for Single Window Counseling (SWC)
process, the applicants can select their branch of study as per their
preference.
O.3 The University is fully residential and all students shall be required to
reside in, and be members of a hostel to which they are assigned. Under
special circumstances, the Director may permit a student to reside with
his/her Parent/Guardian in the University campus or within a reasonable
distance from the University.
O.4 A student becomes eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree after
fulfilling all the academic requirements and extra-academic activities in
accordance with the regulations of the program approved by the Academic
Council.
O.5 The University shall have the following B.Tech. branches under School
of Computer Engineering:
i. Computer Science & Engineering
ii. Information Technology
iii. Computer Science & Communication Engineering
iv. Computer Science & System Engineering
O.6 Medium of instruction, examination and project reports will be in
English.
O.7 Each academic session is divided into two regular semesters (Autumn &
Spring) and one vacation semester (Summer) and follows an Academic
Council approved schedule of academic activities.
O.8 To help the students in planning their courses of study, getting general
advice on the academic programme and monitoring their activities, the
concerned school will normally assign a faculty as Tutor Mentor for a group
of students.
School of Computer Engineering Page 6

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
RULES & REGULATIONS
R.1 ACADEMIC CALENDAR
Each academic session is divided into two regular semesters of
approximately fifteen weeks of classes duration per semester (with ninety
working days): an Autumn Semester (normally July-November) and a Spring
Semester (normally December-May). Further, there are one vacation
semesters (Summer) of nearly 6-8 weeks duration as well.
The Academic Council approved schedule of academic activities for a
session, including dates of registration, examinations, semester breaks etc.
shall be laid down in the Academic Calendar of that session. The current
academic calendar is given in Appendix – D.
R.2 COURSE STRUCTURE
R.2.1 Teaching of the courses shall be reckoned in credits; Credits are
assigned to the courses based on the following general pattern: ·
 One credits for each lecture/tutorial period.
 Half credit per hour for each Laboratory, Practical, Project, or
sessional.
R.2.2 In order to qualify for a B.Tech. degree of the University, a student is
required to complete the credit requirement as prescribed in the curriculum
for a particular programme. The credit requirements for a B.Tech. Degree in
Computer Science & Engineering and Information Technology are given in
Table 1.
Table 1: Total Credit details for B.Tech. Program
Total credits
Sl. Options for 4 year required to Remarks
No. UG Program complete the
course
1 “B.Tech.” in an 155 Credits
engineering major
discipline.
2 "B.Tech. with Minor” 169 Credits (155 credit B.Tech. +
(minor in any other 14 Credit minor course
discipline than major work)
discipline)
3 “B.Tech. with 164 Credits (155 Credit B.Tech. + 9
Honors” Credit Honors course
work).
In case of Computer Science & Communication Engineering and Computer
Science & System Engineering credits are 156 and 154 respectively.
School of Computer Engineering Page 7

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.2.3 The course work requirements may be broadly divided into main
groups of subjects given in Table 2.
Table 2: Group-wise Credit Requirements
Category Credits
Requirements
Humanities and Social Sciences (HS) 12
Basic Sciences (BS) 30
Engineering Sciences (ES) 19
Program Core (PC) 59
Program Electives (PE) 15
Open Electives 6
Projects/ Internship 14
Graduation Requirements 155
R.2.4 Every B. Tech. Programme will have a curriculum and syllabi for the
courses approved by the Academic Council. The Board of Studies of the
school will discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the undergraduate
courses offered by the school from time to time to the Academic Council for
consideration and approval. For all approved courses, the copyright will be
with KIIT.
R.3 MINOR DISCIPLINE
R.3.1 A minor discipline is intended for a student to gain expertise in an
area outside his/her major B.Tech. discipline.
R.3.2 In order to successfully complete a Minor, a student needs to take an
additional 20 credits out of the courses defined in that minor basket.
However, the 6 credits earned under Open Electives may be counted for
Minor requirements if needed.
R.3.3 Students completing a minor will have the minor mentioned in the
degree certificate and in the final grade card.
R.3.4 The minor courses are distributed over the 6th to 8th semesters of a
B.Tech programme.
R.3.5 Students, who have completed all the credits required in the first four
semesters of their studies with a CGPA of 7.5 or above, are eligible for a
minor discipline after the end of 5th semester.
R.3.6 Applications for joining a minor discipline must be submitted by
intending eligible students in the prescribed form. The academic section will
call for applications at the end of the 5th semester of each academic year and
the completed forms must be submitted by the last date specified in the
notification.
School of Computer Engineering Page 8

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.3.7 The number of seats in each minor discipline is decided by the
Academic Council. The intake in every minor discipline will be notified by
the academic section at the time of calling applications. However, a minor
discipline will not be available if the number of applicants in that discipline
is less than five.
R.3.8 Students may enlist their choices of a minor discipline in order of
preference, to which they wish to join. It will not be permissible to alter the
choices after the application has been submitted.
R.3.9 Selection to minor disciplines shall be made strictly in order of merit
of the applicants. For this purpose, the CGPA obtained at the end of the 4th
semester shall be considered.
R.3.10 Joining the minor disciplines carried out in accordance with the
above rules will be effective from the 5th semester of the applicants
concerned. No change of minor discipline shall be permitted after this.
R.3.11 A student with only minor courses remaining as backlogs at the
beginning of a semester (other than a Summer semester) will be deemed to
have completed the B. Tech. programme and he/she will be awarded a
B.Tech. degree without a minor.
R.3.12 A student can opt out from the Minor discipline by expressing
his/her intent in the prescribed form. Once a student opts out, he/she will
not be allowed to rejoin the Minor discipline.
R.4 HONOURS COURSES
R.4.1 Students may opt for a B.Tech (Honours) degree. Students completing
a B.Tech (Honours) will have the Honours mentioned in the degree
certificate and in the final grade card.
R.4.2 The additional credit requirements for a B.Tech (Honours) will be 9
credits. The Honours courses will spread over the 7th & 8th semesters of a
B.Tech programme.
R.4.3 Students who have completed all the credits required in the first five
semesters of their studies with a minimum CGPA of 8.0, will be eligible for a
Honours after the end of 6th semester.
R.4.4 Applications for joining a B.Tech (Honours) must be submitted by
intending eligible students in the prescribed form. The academic section will
call for applications at the end of the 6th semester of each academic year.
However, a B.Tech (Honours) will not be available if the applicants in that
discipline is very less in number.
School of Computer Engineering Page 9

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.4.5 Student having backlog in Honours courses alone, will be deemed to
have completed the B. Tech. programme and he/she will be awarded a
B.Tech. degree without a Honours.
R.5 COURSE COMMITTEE
R.5.1 The Course Committee consists of all faculty members assigned to the
course to monitor the conduct and progress of the course in a semester. One
faculty member will be assigned as the Coordinator. There will be one
Course Committee for each set of courses being offered in a semester.
R.5.2 The Course Committee shall meet at least thrice in a regular semester:
first at the beginning of the semester, second and third before the mid-
semester and end semester examinations respectively. After each meeting of
the Course Committee members, the coordinator shall meet separately with
the student representatives for confidential feedback.
R.5.3 The basic responsibilities of a Course Committee are to:
i. Prepare a common course plan (lesson plan, course outcome, course
objective, activity schedule, evaluation scheme, text and reference
books etc.)
ii. Review periodically the progress of the courses.
iii. Discuss any issues concerning the conduct of the classes.
iv. Decide distribution of the weight for tests, quizzes, assignments,
laboratory work, etc. This should be done in the first Course
Committee meeting.
R.5.4 For any difficulty related to a course, the student is expected to
approach the respective course coordinator for advice and clarification.
R.5.5 The course coordinator will communicate the minutes of the Course
Committee meetings, especially those of the first and second Course
Committee meetings, to the Dean.
R.6 REGISTRATION
R.6.1 Enrollment from the second semester onward. All students will have to
report and register/enroll on a day specified in the Academic Calendar at
the beginning of the semester through the online portal (SAP) of the
University.
R.6.2 A student will be eligible for enrollment only if he/she satisfies the
conditions under promotion criteria and will be permitted to enroll only if
he/she has cleared all dues to the institute up to the end of the previous
semester, provided he/she is not debarred from enrollment, on disciplinary
grounds.
School of Computer Engineering Page 10

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.6.3 If a student fails to report on the specified date, he/she may be
allowed by the Dean to enroll within one week from the reporting date with a
fine. The amount of fine will be specified from time to time.
R.6.4 Under exceptional circumstances, a student may be allowed to enroll
after one week of enrollment date with permission from Chairperson,
Academic Council through Tutor Mentor and the Dean.
R.6.5 The student must register for the backlog courses first giving priority
to the oldest backlogs.
R.7 ATTENDANCE
R.7.1 Students are required to attend all the classes (Lectures/ Tutorials,
Laboratories, Sessional, Workshops etc) for which they have been registered.
R.7.2 For the purpose of attendance calculation, every scheduled lecture,
tutorial or practical class will count as one unit irrespective of the number of
contact hours.
R.7.3 A student will be debarred from appearing in an end semester
examination if his/her attendance falls below 75% and will be awarded an
“I” grade in that course.
R.7.4 Leave of Absence: If the period of leave not exceeding two weeks in a
semester, prior application for leave shall have to be submitted to the
respective Dean stating fully the reasons for the leave requested for along
with supporting document(s). Dean may condone, if prior application could
not be made for any unavoidable reasons.
R.7.5 In case the period of absence is likely to exceed two weeks,
an application for grant of leave will have to be submitted through the Dean
to the Director with supporting documents for sanction of leave.
R.7.6 The leave of absence will not be condoned for attendance.
R.7.7 It will be the responsibility of the student to intimate the Warden of
the hostel in which he/she is residing, and the concerned instructors
regarding his/her absence before availing the leave.
R.7.8 In exceptional circumstances, Director in consultation with the
Chairman, Academic council may relax any of the above requirements.
R.8 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE – TESTS AND EXAMINATIONS
R.8.1 The system of assessment procedure may vary from course to course.
The theory course consists of the following components:
School of Computer Engineering Page 11

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
i. Activities (30%): Components as part of the assessment procedure
such as surprise quizzes, assignments, projects, practical tests, viva
voce etc. as per the requirements of a course.
ii. Mid-semester (20%): there shall be one mid-semester examination,
generally of 1 hour duration.
iii. End-semester examination (50%): there shall be one end-semester
examination, generally of three hours duration.
R.8.2 The general practice for practical courses follows continuous
assessment (60%) and end semester exam (40%).
R.8.3 In sessional courses, 100% assessment is made in the class.
R.8.4 The detailed break-up of marks for various components of the
assessment procedure have to be announced and recorded in the first
Course Committee meeting. The Dean (Academics) should be informed
about the scheme of evaluation of a course after the first Course Committee
meeting.
R.8.5 Students who have missed the regular activities for valid reasons may
request for make-up activities to the respective course instructor. If the
course instructor is satisfied with the explanation provided by the student,
he/she may conduct the make-up activities.
R.8.6 Students who have missed the mid-semester/laboratory/ sessional
examinations for valid reasons may request for a make-up examination to
the respective course instructor within ten days from the date of the
examination missed. If the course instructor is satisfied with the explanation
provided by the student, he/she may conduct the make-up exam either
during the make-up exam slots mentioned in the Academic Calendar or as
per the convenience of both the parties. If the instructor is not satisfied with
the explanation, he/she may reject the application.
R.9 GRADING SYSTEM
R.9.1 The performance of a student in a course is denoted by a letter grade.
The letter grades, their interpretation and the corresponding grade points
are given in Table 3.
R.9.2 The I-grade indicates a temporary grade and that a part of the total
requirement of the course remains to be completed and that the student has
done satisfactory work in all other aspects of the course. The student is
required to complete this small part within a prescribed date, generally
within one month of the start of the following regular semester, and the
course instructor will amend the I-grade to a regular grade within this
period. If the conversion to a regular grade is not done within one month of
the start of the following regular semester, the I-grade will automatically be
converted to an F grade.
School of Computer Engineering Page 12

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Table 3: Score – Grade Mapping
Grade Score on 100 Grade Point value Interpretation
O 90-100 10 Outstanding
E 80-89 9 Excellent
A 70-79 8 Very Good
B 60-69 7 Good
C 50-59 6 Average
D 40-49 5 Below Average
F Below 40 0 Fail
I Incomplete
R.10 GRADE SHEET
R.10.1 The grade sheet issued at the end of a semester to each student will
contain the following:
i. The course number, course name and the credits for each course
registered in that semester.
ii. The letter grade obtained in each course
iii. The total number of credits earned by the student upto the end of
that semester
iv. The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) for that particular
semester
v. the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of all the courses taken
from the first semester
R.10.2 At the end of the program, Final Grade Report (FGR) containing
details of all the courses taken by the student mentioning the overall CGPA
will be issued along with the Degree certificate.
R.10.3 Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA)
The performance of a student in a semester is indicated by SGPA, which is a
weighted average of the grades in all the courses done by the student in the
given semester.
SGPA is defined as follows:
where C is the credits of a subject item, GP is the grade point corresponding
to the grade obtained in that subject items and the summation is taken over
all the subject items registered in that semester, including those in which
the student has secured F grades but excluding those in which he/she has
been assigned an “I” grade.
School of Computer Engineering Page 13

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.10.4 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
The performance up to any time in the course of the student‟s program is
indicated by the student‟s CGPA, which is also calculated by the formula
used for SGPA calculation, except that the averaging is done over all of the
courses and credits that the student has taken during his/her entire
program up to that point.
R.11 DECLARATION OF RESULTS
R.11.1 The Course instructor will display the marks awarded to the
students along with their copies after completion of evaluation. If a student
has grievances about the marks of a particular course, he/she will contact
the concerned course instructor within two days. If the course
instructor/chief examiner feels that the case is genuine, he/she may re-
examine the case and put a revised mark, if applicable. No request after the
deadline (two days) will be considered.
R.11.2 The evaluation pattern and all assignments, quizzes, exams etc. used
in evaluation shall be posted on the course Moodle page.
R.11.3 The Course Committee will sit for analysis of the results and finalize
the grades. After finalization, the course instructor will upload the marks
of the students in a course on SAP portal in the prescribed format. The
Controller office will compile all the results and announce the same to the
students through E-mail and through SAP student self service portal of the
University.
R.12 SUPPLEMENTARY EXAMINATION
R.12.1 A supplementary examination will be held annually at the end of
each academic year for 1st, 2nd, 3rd & 4th year before the start of the next
academic session for the current level theory subjects only.
R.12.2 The students will be allowed to appear for their failed papers in the
current level subject to a maximum of 50% (ceiling value) of the
total subjects for the current academic year (both spring and
autumn semesters).
R.12.3 A student will ordinarily be assigned one Grade less than he/she
actually obtains in a subject item in the supplementary examination subject
to a minimum of C Grade or below, which would remain unchanged.
R.12.4 However, there will not be any grade loss for a subject in the
supplementary examination for a student who satisfy attendance criteria
in the summer term classes.
School of Computer Engineering Page 14

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.12.5 A student will not be permitted to appear the subject in the
supplementary examination, which is canceled as a disciplinary measure for
adopting unfair means in the end semester examination.
R.12.6 Students debarred in the annual examination must satisfy
attendance criteria in summer classes to appear supplementary
examination. Those students may opt for fresh internal evaluation ((i.e. quiz,
assignments, mid-semester marks etc.).
R.12.7 A student, who misses the end semester examination for one/more
theory subject(s) for any genuine reason like medical ailments or mishap in
the family, will be allowed to appear for those subjects in the supplementary
examination without reduction in grade with the approval of the
Vice Chancellor.
R. 12.8 Students can appear in the supplementary examination for
improvement of their grades for maximum 3 of the theory subjects in the
current level where the grades are C or D and there will not be any grade
reduction.
R.12.9 Generally, the end semester exam alone is given as the
supplementary examination and the continuous evaluation marks (i.e. quiz,
assignments marks etc.) earned by the student in the original semester will
be taken into account for calculating the final marks.
R.13 SUBJECTS REGISTRATION FOR GRADE IMPROVEMENT
REGISTRATION OF SUBJECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF GRADE
R.13.1 A student can register fresh in maximum 3 (three) numbers of theory
subjects, where he/she has passed, to improve his/her grade in those
subjects. The number of available subjects (N) for a student is the difference
between 3 and his/her number of backlog subjects. (N = 3 - number of
backlog subjects)
R.13.2 The student will register at the beginning of the semester only in the
subsequent year.
R.13.3 The student will go through the same schemes of evaluation (such as
activities, mid semester examination and end semester examination) as
applicable to the students in the regular subject(s) registration.
R.13.4 The final grade in the subject, where student registers for
improvement, would be the best between the grades secured in the regular
registration and improvement registration.
School of Computer Engineering Page 15

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.14 SUMMER VACATION SEMESTERS
R.14.1 The summer vacation semester courses will be offered to clear the
backlog courses of the students and for students who wish to spend a
semester off-campus based on the availability of the course instructors.
R.14.2 No student should register for more than three vacation semester
courses during a particular vacation semester.
R.14.3 A student has to pay a fee for each credit registered in the vacation
semester.
R.14.4 The assessment procedure for a course will be similar to that of a
regular semester course.
R.14.5 Withdrawal from a vacation semester course is not permitted.
R.15 INTERNSHIP
R.15.1 As part of the B.Tech. curriculum, the students are required to do an
industrial internship in India for a minimum period of 4 weeks, during the
summer vacation following the 4th semester or any subsequent vacation
before the final semester. Only in exceptional situations and only with
approval from the respective Dean (Academics), a student will be allowed to
do this internship at other time periods.
R.15.2 The internship must be done in a technology oriented public/private
sector company/industry or in reputed research/ academic organizations,
such as CSIR, DRDO, BARC IIT.
R.15.3 Internship with start-up companies, which are not registered yet, will
not be considered.
R.15.4 On successful completion of the internship, two credits will be
awarded to the student for the same. These credits will be counted towards
SGPA/CGPA calculations.
R.16 SEMESTER EXCHANGE
R16.1 KIIT has memorandum of understanding (MoU) for semester exchange
visits with some eminent academic institutions in India and abroad.
Selection of candidates for such exchange visits will be done through a
competitive process.
R.16.2 Selected students can go on exchange visits for one or two semesters.
If the student goes on semester exchange visits for two semesters, these two
semesters can be contiguous.
School of Computer Engineering Page 16

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.16.3 The semester exchange programs can only be undertaken with those
institutes with whom KIIT has an MoU for such visits.
R.16.4 Credits and grades earned during semester exchange visits will be
converted to KIIT equivalent credits and grades as per the Academic
Council approved conversion criteria in each case.
R.17 ELIGIBILITY FOR AWARD OF THE B.TECH. DEGREE:
R.17.1 Promotion: A student needs to satisfy the below mentioned
conditions to be eligible for promotion from ith to (i+1)th year (to the next
higher level):
i. Number of backlog subjects should not be more than 5(five) at the ith
year considering both the semesters in an academic year.
ii. No backlogs at any stage below ith year (i.e. (i-1)th or (i-2)th year)
iii. No suspension for a specified period by the University disciplinary
committee and has not been denied the privileges of a Regular
student at the time which admissions to higher levels is in progress.
R.17.2 Degree requirement: In order to qualify for a B. Tech Degree of the
University a student must:
i. complete all the credit requirements for the Degree as laid down in
the prescribed curriculum of the discipline with a minimum of D
grade in every theory and a minimum of C grade in every practical &
sessional item.
ii. secure a CGPA of 6.0 or higher at the end of the semester in which
he/she completes all the requirements for the Degree
iii. clear all institutional and hostel dues of the University.
iv. have no disciplinary action pending against him/her.
R.17.3 Readmission:
A student whose academic program is terminated under any of the above
conditions may appeal to the Chairperson, Academic Council through Tutor
Mentor and Dean (Academics) for mercy and a second chance to re-enroll in
the program. The Chairperson, Academic Council may take appropriate
decision on such applications on behalf of the Academic Council and the
same shall be reported to the Academic Council.
R.18 MAXIMUM DURATION OF THE PROGRAM
R.18.1 The maximum permitted duration of each programme is determined
in terms of number of registered regular semesters, herein after called
registered semesters. Any semester in which a student has registered for a
course will be called registered semester subject to the following:
School of Computer Engineering Page 17

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
(a) Only the first and second semesters of an academic year can be
registered semesters. The summer semester will not be considered as a
registered semester.
(b) A semester when a student has been granted withdrawal or granted leave
will not be considered as a registered semester.
(c) The semester when a student is suspended from the Institute on
disciplinary grounds will not be counted towards the number of registered
semesters. The summer semesters falling in between the permitted
registered semesters shall be available for earning credits.
R18.2 The maximum permissible number of registered semesters for
completing all degree requirements for the B. Tech. degree is twelve (12). If a
student opts for the slow-paced programme, then the maximum permissible
number of registered semesters shall be increased by two semesters.
R.18.3 Semester Break/Temporary withdrawal from the Program: A student
may be permitted by the Dean (Academics) to obtain semester break or
temporary withdrawal from the program for a semester or longer duration
for reasons of ill health or other valid reasons. Normally, a student will be
permitted to withdraw from the program only for a maximum continuous or
intermittent period of two semesters during the whole program duration.
R.19 SCHOLARSHIPS
R.19.1 Various types of scholarships have been instituted by the University
for encouraging the meritorious students. The quantum and period of
scholarships are subject to change from time to time as decided by the
Academic Council. The details of various scholarships available for students
shall be displayed on University Website from time to time.
R.19.2 Pradyumna Bal Memorial Scholarships: This scholarship is
instituted in the memory of Late Pradyumna Kishore Bal, Founder President
of KIIT. Every year two economically challenged but meritorious students
are provided completely free education under this scholarship scheme. The
scholarship covers college fees, hostel dues including mess, books and any
other ancillary expenses.
R.19.3 KIIT Merit Scholarships: KIIT Merit Scholarship is awarded to the
semester toppers (1st, 2nd & 3rd position) of each semester in each branch for
a period of six months. The quanta of scholarships are subject to change
from time to time as decided by the Academic Council.
R.19.4 KIITEE Merit Scholarship is awarded to KIITEE General Rank
holders from rank 1 to 1000 for a period of 4years, during the study period
at Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Deemed to be University.
KIITEE Merit Scholarship holders will not be awarded with KIIT Merit
Scholarships. The quantum of scholarships are subject to change from time
to time as decided by the Academic Council.
School of Computer Engineering Page 18

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.19.5 The student must satisfy the following terms and conditions for
availing scholarship from KIIT:
i. Maintain at least 75% attendance in each semester to be issued by
Dean (Academics).
ii. Secure at least 7.5 SGPA in each semester and clear all the papers in
single sitting (no back paper) to be issued by Controller of
Examinations.
iii. Not indulge in any indiscipline activity to be issued by Director, SA.
R.19.6 In the cases of scholarships provided by private organizations, the
rates and terms and conditions for the award of such scholarship shall be
as approved by the Academic Council.
R.19.7 In the case of the SC/ST candidates, the award of scholarships and
other benefits will be in accordance with the rules framed or amended by the
Government of India/Odisha from time to time.
R.19.8 The Dean (Academics) will lay down the administrative procedures to
be followed in the selection of students for the award of various scholarships
consistent with existing Government regulations if any. The number and
names of the candidates selected for various scholarships will be reported to
the Academic Council.
R.20 STUDENTS’ CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINARY CODE
R.20.1 Objectives and Scope of the Code
The objective of Students‟ Conduct and Disciplinary Code is to protect the
right of all members of the KIIT community and to maintain an atmosphere
in the community appropriate for a University of higher education. The
student discipline system is designed for an educational system and does
not function as a court of law. Therefore, procedural issues, including the
introduction and consideration of evidence, are handled in a manner
consistent with that educational focus.
The student will give an undertaking at the time of joining a course in this
University to comply with the provisions envisaged in this code in letter and
spirit and even if it is not given, he/ she will be bound by the provisions of
this code. The student community should become familiar with and strictly
adhere to the rules envisaged in this code.
Any student exhibiting prohibited behavior mentioned in this code shall be
subjected to disciplinary sanctions depending upon the gravity of the
misconduct or depending on its recurrence. No refund or credit of tuition
fees, or other costs associated with attendance of the University will be
made to students when disciplinary sanctions are imposed which result in
the student‟s being deprived of privileges and/ or access to services
School of Computer Engineering Page 19

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
R.20.2 Student found responsible for the violation of the Code of Conduct of
the University outlined herein is subject to disciplinary sanctions.
i. Any violation of any sort pertinent to the Indian Penal Code.
ii. Violation of any policies, rules, or regulations published time to time
by KIIT.
iii. Conducts that interfere with the disruptions or obstructions of
teaching, research, administration, or other KIIT activities.
iv. Ragging in any form is prohibited in the premises of KIIT campus.
v. Failing to comply with orders or directives of KIIT officials, University
hearing bodies, Security Personnel, or any other law enforcement officers
acting in the performance of their duties.
vi. Furnishing false or misleading information to a member of the
faculty, staff, student, or law enforcement official acting in an official
capacity.
vii. Forgery, alteration, destruction, misuse, of KIIT documents, including
University records, applications for financial aid, admission, course
changes or course credit, copying, misuse or alteration of transcripts,
and student identification cards etc.
viii. Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an
abuse of the Code and Conduct of Student system.
ix. Unauthorized use, Damage, defacement, or destruction of any private or
University property.
x. Attempted or actual theft or possession of private or University property.
xi. Instigation of a disturbance in violation of KIIT policy and/or any local
sound ordinance.
xii. Discrimination against any member of the KIIT community, or a visitor,
through biased or prejudicial behaviors related to the person‟s race,
color, nationality, sex, religion, disability, age or sexual orientation.
xiii. Encouraging/confronting with illegal activities and/or violation of
Code and Conduct of Student by active/passive participation/ presence
during the activity.
xiv. Hazing, defined as, but not limited to, any act imposed on
current or potential members of a group or organization that endangers
the mental or physical health or safety of a person, that defaces or
School of Computer Engineering Page 20

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
destroys public or private property, that is likely to result in humiliation
or ridicule, or that is likely to result in interference with academic
efforts regardless of the consent of the participants, or any actions or
activities prohibited by the KIIT authority.
xv. Physical abuse, including, but not limited to, inflicting or threatening
bodily harm upon any person, or acting in a manner which creates a
risk of bodily harm to any person.
xvi. Harassment, abuse, coercion, or threats by means other than the use
or threatened use of physical force.
xvii. Possession or use of any weapons/ dangerous/ explosive/ prohibited
chemicals/device which constitutes a significant health hazard, without
express authorization by an authorized KIIT official.
xviii. KIIT Campus is a “Smoking free and Alcohol free Campus”. Possession
or consumption of narcotic drugs, tobacco, alcohol and other
intoxicating substances are strictly prohibited in the campus and
hostels.
xix. Motor vehicles use by students in the campus and hostel is banned.
Day-scholars can use the University transport facility for commuting.
xx. Harboring or bringing a pet on KIIT premises in violation of University
policy.
xxi. Gambling for money or other items of value on KIIT premises; including
but not limited to playing cards or other games of chances or skill for
money or other items of value.
xxii. Plagiarism in any form is strictly prohibited.
xxiii. Mobile Phones are not permitted to use in the classroom, Library,
academic area, Examination Halls, etc.
xxiv. Interfering with the rights or safety of one's roommate(s) and/or other
students or creating a hostile environment within the residential
facilities.
xxv. Door-to-door selling/soliciting/canvassing of any item, service or
cause is published.
xxvi. Permitting non-residence hostel students to utilize equipment or
services intended for the exclusive use of residence hostel students is
prohibited.
School of Computer Engineering Page 21

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
xxvii. Hostel Advisory Board has other regulations that are described in the
Contract for Room and Board Accommodations or published and
displayed in the residence hostels.
xxviii. In addition to the above, Academic Malpractices will normally be
considered as an act of examination malpractice as defined below:
xxix. Copying from another student or by any other means during the
examination.
xxx. Assisting an examinee in copying during examination by any means.
xxxi. Possessing/using unauthorized materials or documents.
xxxii. Obtaining all or part of a question paper by unfair means and /or
distributing to others.
xxxiii. Substituting for another student, or permitting any other person
to substitute for oneself, for appearing in the examination.
xxxiv. Sexual Harassment/misconduct: Offensive or derogatory comments or
conducts reflecting gender-bias which create intimidating work, or
living environments and which represent substantial violations of the
rights or opportunities of the victim(s). Such conducts include but are
not limited to:
a. Conducts that violate the institute's policies prohibiting sexual
harassment, such as unwelcome sexual advances, requests
for sexual favour, and other unwelcome verbal or written
communications of a sexual nature.
b. The use of phone, email or any other method designed to transmit
messages or materials of an explicit sexual nature that are unwanted
by the recipient.
c. Entering in Academic section or laboratory, faculty room, office of an
academic Department/Centre, without permission and/or
tampering/ changing records/documents in any form.
R.20.3 Modalities of Investigation:
a. When the Chairman of the respective disciplinary committee receives
information regarding alleged violation of any rule or regulation of the
students‟ conduct and disciplinary code, the respective Chairman shall
investigate the same.
b. The Chairman of the disciplinary committee may summon the student(s)
either orally or in writing to appear at a specified date, time, and place in
connection with an alleged violation.
School of Computer Engineering Page 22

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
c. The Chairman may dispose of a violation as being unfounded, may
impose disciplinary sanctions without a hearing, or may refer the
violation to a formal disciplinary hearing in the respective committee.
d. No order other than the order suspending or warning a student shall be
passed without giving an opportunity of hearing to the student(s).
R.20.4 Minor Sanctions:
a. Warning: This is the least sanction envisaged in this code. The student(s)
engaged in any prohibited behavior will be issued a warning letter.
b. Tendering Apology: The student(s) engaged in any prohibited behavior
may be asked to tender an apology for his/her act, undertaking that he
/she shall not indulge in such or any of the prohibited behavior in
future.
c. Suspension of privileges: Prohibits participation of student(s) in certain
events, activities, placement activity, or class/lab; restricts student(s)
entry to specific campus.
d. Hostel Privileges: Change of hostels, expulsion from hostels,
e. Fine: Compensation for damage; fines up to Rs. 10,000/-
f. Community Service: Assigned a specific number of hours of service.
R.20.5 Major Sanctions:
a. Debarring from Examinations: The student(s) may be debarred from
writing all/some of the examinations, which forms part of the academic
programme.
b. Suspension: Course drop, semester drop, rustication for a specified
period may be given as punishment, depending on the severity of the
offenses.
c. Restitution: Restitution implies reimbursement in terms of money
and/or services to compensate for personal injury or loss, damage/ dis-
figuration to property of the University or any property kept in the
premises of the University in any manner. The student(s) may be asked
to compensate for the loss that has been caused to any person or
property of the University or any property kept in the premises of the
University due to the act of vandalism perpetrated by the student(s). The
student(s) will also be liable to put in their service to restore any loss or
damage caused to any property and thereby bringing it to its original
form if it is possible.
School of Computer Engineering Page 23

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
d. Forfeiture: Caution deposit of any student engaged in any prohibited
behaviour shall be forfeited.
e. Expulsion: This is the extreme form of disciplinary action and shall be
resorted to only in cases where stringent action is warranted. Expulsion
is the permanent dismissal of a student from the University and such a
student will not be eligible for readmission to any of the courses of this
University.
R.20.6 Functionaries under the Code
i. Hostel Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (HWDC):
Violation of general rules by a hostel resident will come under the purview of
Hostel Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (HWDC). The HWDC will deal
with the matter and give appropriate punishment as envisaged. For matters
which have implications across hostels they shall be referred to the
University Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (UWDC).
ii. School Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (SWDC):
Disciplinary issues related to general conduct of students in the class
rooms, examination hall, laboratories and in around campuses shall be
dealt with by the School Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (SWDC). The
Director of the Schools shall have the power to impose minor sanctions as
envisaged in this code. If the violations are of serious nature or indulge
student(s) are from more than one School, SWDC may refer the matters to
University Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (UWDC) for further action.
The matters and the respective disciplinary actions recommended by
SWDC/HWDC shall be endorsed by Chairman, UWDC.
Composition of SWDC:
a. Director of the School – Chairperson
b. Dean one of the School – Member
c. FIC students‟ affairs – Member
d. Program Head – Member
e. Faculty members (2nos) – Members
f. A.O of the concerned School – Member Secretary
g. Tutor Mentors of concerned student – Invitee
All the above committees shall be appointed by the Director of the School for
a period of two years. In addition, the Chairperson may invite any other
persons to be associated with the proceedings of a particular case, if they
deem fit, on a case to case basis.
School of Computer Engineering Page 24

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
iii. University Welfare and Disciplinary Committee (UWDC):
Violations at the University level include those issues pertaining to the
Indian Penal Code (within or outside the campus), those that can affect the
KIIT community at large or those that can affect the property of the
University itself or involvement of students from multiple schools. For all
such major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on the
general body of students, and which may warrant a uniform and more
formalized nature of investigation, UWDC will investigate the allegations and
recommend disciplinary sanctions to Pro-Vice Chancellor for approval
R.20.7 Right to Appeal
The student(s) aggrieved by the action of any authority of the University
under or subordinate to the Director (SA) can appeal to the Director (SA) and
any student aggrieved by the action of the Director (SA) can appeal to the
Pro-Vice Chancellor. He/she should appeal within two weeks time with
proper justification of the appeal. The decision of the Pro-Vice Chancellor
shall be final and binding on the students.
R.20.8 Assistance from Law Enforcement Agencies
The Dean/Director shall have the power and duty to call the Police
immediately with the concurrence of the Director (SA) when there is a threat
of Law and Order situation in the campus/hostel and also when there is a
genuine apprehension that any incident of rioting, vandalism or any other
act prohibited by law is likely to take place. The Dean/Director shall in such
a case give a detailed report to the Director (SA). The Dean/Director can also
arrange for video recording of the entire situation and take requisite actions
through police and other concerned authorities.
R.21 POWER TO MODIFY
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Academic Council has
the right to modify any of the above regulations from time to time.
SUPPORT SERVICES
S.1 LIBRARY
School of Computer Engineering Library opens round the clock in 24x7
hours mode for the users except three National holidays. Besides the
Central Library resources, the school library has a robust holding of 16046
reference and 1, 45, 713 textbooks with 21053 titles, 1, 36,268+ e-books,
28000+ e-journals, 46 e-databases, 42 PhD theses deposited to Shodhganga
repository, 521 CDROMs, 11 multilingual newspapers, 17 multi-disciplined
magazines. The key e-journals, databases and tools that include IEL online,
Science Direct (Comp. Sc.), EBSCO, Taylor and Francis, Proquest,
School of Computer Engineering Page 25

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Bibliographic databases like Scopus and Web of Science, Patent Database
(Derwent Innovation), Summon discovery tool, endnote, Turnitin anti
plagiarism software.
The Library is completely automated through LIBSYS-10 LMS Software.
Users can access the Central Library Web Portal, University publications
and question bank through University repository on campus or through
remote access provided to each student. It has a photocopy facility. The
details of the library can also be accessed at: https://library.kiit.ac.in/
S.2 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Besides academics, KIIT is proud to have a rich sporting culture to maintain
a holistic development of students. We have created a world class sports
infrastructure and engaged international coaches in several disciplines to
nurture and hone students „talents. The campus has excellent facilities for
several sports as mentioned in Appendix-C. The recreational facility details
can also be accessed at: https://kiit.ac.in/campuslife/sports/
S.3 TRAINING AND PLACEMENT:
KIIT Deemed to be University offers unrivaled training and placement facility
to students. The Training & Placement Office is located in Kolab Campus.
Primary activities are:
Industrial Internship: Arranging Industrial internship for students. It‟s broad
objective is to orient the students to work in an industry environment with
real-life problems.
Pre-Placement Training: Pre-Placement training, both in technical and non
technical areas, is organized for students aiming for campus placement.
While technical module helps students to brush up their technical
knowledge, areas like Group Discussion, Personal Interviews, English,
Mathematics and Reasoning are touched upon by non technical module.
Campus Selection: T&P cell completely takes care of the placement related
activities of the Schools and University. The details about training and
placement can also be accessed at: https://kiit.ac.in/training-placement/
S.4 HEALTH CARE:
Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), the Medical College & 1750
Bedded Super-specialty Hospital is found within the KIIT campus next to
the hostels. It‟s a fully computerized hospital with ERP, Wi-Fi, IP Phone and
CCTV Surveillance. It has 100 Air-conditioned Cabins, 50 Air-conditioned
Sharing Cabins along with wards. There are 16 state-of-the-art Operation
Theatres including 2 modular Operation Theatre, 24x7 Blood Bank, and
State-of-the-Art Central Laboratory accredited by NABL, 100 ICU Beds and
24x7 Emergency/Casualty. Ambulance service is also available 24x7. All the
School of Computer Engineering Page 26

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
services are available to students and staffs round the clock. The detail of
health facilities is also available at: https://kims.kiit.ac.in/
S.5 STUDENT ACTIVITY CENTER:
KIIT Student Activity Centre (KSAC) aims to bring all students of the
university under one roof with objective of establishing a common ground
for extra-curricular activities as well as ensures a holistic environment for
sharing of talent, culture and innovative ideas. KSAC governs 28 official
Student Societies of KIIT in a varied range such as music, dance , painting,
photography, film, designing, theatre, fashion, Quizzing, marketing &
Finance, IT & Web, Robotics, Aeronautics etc. Students can join their
society of choice and carry forward their passion, interest & hobbies. KSAC
provides well equipped facilities for students such as dedicated dance floor,
Jam rooms, stage with podium and Auditorium. KSAC organizes major
student events like KIITFEST, the annual Techno-cultural fest; KIIT
International MUN; Udghosh, the National Open Quiz; Pratijja, Asian
Parliamentary Debate; TEDxKIITUniversity and so on. In addition, KSAC
organizes a plethora of online & offline engagement activities, workshops,
alumni-student interaction programmes and celebrates different festivals &
days. The student members of KSAC are also involved in many outreach and
community engagement activities throughout the year.
Moreover all major festivals are also celebrated at KIIT by KSAC. The details
about student activity center is also given at: https://ksac.kiit.ac.in/
S.6 STUDENT COUNSELLING CELL:
Counselling is a guidance programme intended for students in different
situations for different services in the areas of career and attaining overall
competency. KIIT counselling cell guides the students in advancing their
career and at the same time making them psychologically strong to handle
the stresses of a successful career. It offers solution focused and student-
centered approach. Also, the Counselling Cell guides in providing
International academic exposure through semester exchange programme,
internship short term courses and cultural exchange programmes.
The details about student counseling cell is also available at:
https://kiit.ac.in/student-counselling/
S.7 COMPLIANCE CELL:
The School promotes single-window assistance to students through
compliance cell. Students put forth all types of requests (grievances/
complaints/ requirements) to the cell. Some requests are directly resolved by
the cell in consultation with the Director/Dean. Others are forwarded to the
designated unit/department/post for serving the request. However, in the
current pandemic situation, your online application needs to adhere to the
following procedure to serve all your requests quickly:
School of Computer Engineering Page 27

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
 Objective of your request must be mentioned clearly.
 Every application must contain Full Name, Roll No, Branch,
Semester, and Contact No.
 The application should be sent to the Email ID as mentioned in
the Annexure against each nature of the requirement.
 Requirements, those are not mentioned in the Appendix - H,
can be forwarded only through your Tutor Mentor to Dean /
Director.
The point of contacts for different requirement redressal is given in
Appendix – G.
S.8 ICT CELL
The School ICT cell is managed by ICT Manager with few staff members
deputed from the University ICT cell. Responsibilities of Manager include:
 Maintain inventory of supplies, places orders and records of maintenance
activities for the software, hardware, computer network, server and other
electronic gadgets.
 Monitor files and programs that are downloaded on to the computers to
make sure spyware, malware and other dangerous programs are not
downloaded.
 Provide ICT installation and support in the classroom, building, faculty
chamber, office space and organizing events/ activities.
 File all reports of software, the hardware of the computer, and related
equipment required by the Director/Head ICT.
 Diagnose hardware/software problems and fixes them or contacts the
appropriate engineer to correct the problem.
 Conduct regular maintenance on the computers and perform regular
software backups.
 Ensure that University equipment/facilities under the School's control
are properly maintained and serviced as required.
The detail of central ICT can also be accessed at:
https://kiit.ac.in/campuslife/ict/
School of Computer Engineering Page 28

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Appendix- A
School Contact Persons
Position Persons & Mail ID Contact No
Director General Dr. Biswajit Sahoo 9437229507
director.csit@kiit.ac.in
Dean, Research Dr. Suresh Chandra Satapathy 9000249712
dean_research.cse@kiit.ac.in
Dean, Academics Dr. Bhabani Sankar Prasad Mishra 9438037401
(CS) dean.cs@kiit.ac.in
Dean, Academics Dr. Arup Abhinna Acharya 9861058079
(IT) dean.it@kiit.ac.in
Dean, Academics Dr. Amulya Ratna Swain 9439627127
(CC & CSM) dean.ccm@kiit.ac.in
Program Head, Dr. Hrudaya Kumar Tripathy 9437432185
M.Tech phmtech.cse@kiit.ac.in
Dy. Controller of Dr. Anuja Kumar Acharya 9438520431
Examination dycoe.csit@kiit.ac.in
Asst. CoE-1 Mrs. Bhaswati Sahoo 9439772095
acoe.cese@kiit.ac.in
Asst. CoE-2 Mr. Sujoy Datta 8093713885
acoe.csit@kiit.ac.in
Asst. CoE-3 Dr. Subhasis Dash 9437800206
fic.examcell.cse@kiit.ac.in
Asst. CoE-4 Mr. Lalit Kumar Vashishtha 9668224395
fic.examcell.cse@kiit.ac.in
Asso. Dean (T&P) Dr. Tanmaya Swain 9437389858
tnp.scs@kiit.ac.in
Sr. Administrative Mr. Partha Sarathi Mohapatra 9830260530
Officer partha.mohapatra@kiit.ac.in
Faculty-In-Charges
Dr. Satarupa Mohanty 9124941515
Alumni Relation satarupafcs@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Namita Panda 9437444205
npandafcs@kiit.ac.in
Mrs. Meghana G Raj (Talk Series) 9000177935
meghana.rajfcs@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Himansu Das 9861335143
Laboratory himanshufcs@kiit.ac.in
Governance Mrs. Suchismita Das 8763977944
suchismita.dasfcs@kiit.ac.in
Library Enrichment Dr. Manas Ranjan Lenka 9861077824
manaslenkafcs@kiit.ac.in
Quality Assurance Dr. Siddharth Swarup Rautray 8763999449
qacell.cse@kiit.ac.in
Mrs. Krishna Chakravarty 8658115387
qacell.cse@kiit.ac.in
School of Computer Engineering Page 29

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Dr. Niranjan Kumar Ray 9861361486
qacell.cse@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Mohit Ranjan Panda 9777999330
qacell.cse@kiit.ac.in
Ms. Santwana Sagnika 8093945565
Website & Social webmaster.sce@kiit.ac.in
Media Management Mr. Kunal Anand 8464800019
webmaster.sce@kiit.ac.in
Ms. Pratyusa Mukherjee 9861937376
webmaster.sce@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Manjusha Pandey 8763999448
ficstudentactivity.cse@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Leena Das 7750827038
ficstudentactivity.cse@kiit.ac.in
Student Affairs
Ms. Roshni Pradhan 9439659354
ficstudentactivity.cse@kiit.ac.in
Mr. Sankalp Nayak 9853261679
ficstudentactivity.cse@kiit.ac.in
Mr. R. N. Ramakanta Parida 7978036775
nss.sce@kiit.ac.in
Student Affairs
Dr. Minakhi Rout 9861108580
(NCC & NSS)
nss.sce@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Rajat Kumar Behera 9886072882
rajatkumar.beherafcs@kiit.ac.in
Mr. Kumar Devadutta 9437072128
International Student
kdevduttafcs@kiit.ac.in
Affairs (Academics)
Dr. Mainak Bandyopadhyay 8009387402
mainak.bandyopadhyayfcs@kiit.a
c.in
Dr. Ajay Kumar Jena 9437232068
Time Table ajay.jenafcs@kiit.ac.in
Governance
Dr. Abhaya Kumar Sahoo 9861443456
abhaya.sahoofcs@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Hrudaya Kumar Tripathy 9437432185
hktripathyfcs@kiit.ac.in
Guest Lecture
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Mallick 8895885152
Engagement
pradeep.mallickfcs@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Rajdeep Chatterjee 9040820056
Industry & Institute rajdeepfcs@kiit.ac.in
Collaboration
Dr. Saurabh Bilgaiyan 9040236696
saurabh.bilgaiyanfcs@kiit.ac.in
School of Computer Engineering Page 30

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Project Co-ordinator Dr. Jagannath Singh 9861085883
(UG) jagannath.singhfcs@kiit.ac.in
Dr. Sushruta Mishra 7751995740
sushruta.mishrafcs@kiit.ac.in
Appendix-B
University Contact Persons
Academic & Curricular Activities
Position Name & Mail ID Contact No
Vice Chancellor Dr. Sasmita Rani Samanta 9437035188
vicechancellor@kiit.ac.in
Pro-Vice Chancellor Dr. Saranjeet Singh 9439362572
provicechancellor@kiit.ac.in
Registrar Dr. Jynana Ranjan Mohanty 7978819705
registrar@kiit.ac.in
Controller of Dr. Santosh Kumar Pani 9861008635
Examinations coe@kiit.ac.in
Director Dr. Samaresh Mishra 9437189722
Student Affairs director.sa@kiit.ac.in
Director Mr. Prasant K. Mohapatra 9437020238
Admission pkm.admission@kiit.ac.in
Director Mr. Sudhir Satapathy 9831049367
Finance sudhir.satapathy@kiit.ac.in
Director Dr. Sucheta Priyabadini 9937220209
Student Counselling sucheta@kiit.ac.in
Director General Dr. Gaganendu Dash 9437020244
Sports & PE sports.kiit@gmail.com
Director Mr. Sudhir Kumar Rath 9937220251
Hostel srath@kiit.ac.in
Chief Librarian Dr. Bijayalaxmi Routray 9937401113
bijaylaxmi@kiit.ac.in
Chief Proctor Mr. Pradeep K. Patnaik 9437052844
pattnaik.pradeep232@gmail.com
Dy. Director Dr. Shyam Sundar Behura 9178358687
Student Services shyam.behura@kids.ac.in
Dean, International Dr. Anita Pati 9439258659
Students Relations dean.isr@kiit.ac.in
NSS Programme Dr. Kajal Parashar 9438730874
Coordinator kparasharfch@kiit.ac.in
NCC Officer Dr. Tribikram Mohanty 9437230562
tmohantyfce@kiit.ac.in
Jt. Registrar Mr. Pratap K. Chamupaty 9437064771
(Administration) pkc@kiit.ac.in
School of Computer Engineering Page 31

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Deputy Director, Mrs. Jayanti Nath
Girls' Hostel & jayanti.nath@kiit.ac.in 8895585533
Student Affairs
General Manager- Mr. Kalpataru Nayak 9861292981
Systems, ICT kalpataru@kiit.ac.in
Appendix-C
Recreational Facilities
(Sports Complexes Locations)
Campus 3 Campus 12
(Exclusively for Girl Students) • 1 Basketball Court (Synthetic)
• Indoor Hall (Multi-purpose) • 1 Lawn Tennis Court (Synthetic)
• 3 Badminton Courts • Indoor Hall (Multi-purpose)
• Multi Gym • 3 Badminton Courts
• Billiards and Snookers • Multi Gym
• Table Tennis • Swimming Pool (Outdoor)
• Swimming Pool (Indoor) • Table Tennis Hall
• Chess • Billiards and Snookers Hall
• Carom • Yoga Center
• Yoga Hall Campus 13
Campus 5 • KIIT Cricket Stadium
• Multi Gym (International Standard with Turf
• Swimming Pool (Indoor) Wickets, Flood Lights with 20000
• Cricket Ground seating capacity & 7 Practice
• Football Ground outdoor nets)
Campus 6 • Hockey Stadium (Astroturf &
• Swimming Pool (Outdoor) Flood Lights with 5000 seating
• Multi Gym capacity)
Campus 7 • Football Stadium/ Rugby
• Billiards and Snooker Hall Stadium (Grass with 3000 seating
• Table Tennis Hall capacity)
• Multi Gym • Baseball Ground
• Swimming Pool (Outdoor) • Track & Field
• Yoga Hall • Biju Patnaik Indoor Stadium
• Basketball Court (Multi Purpose with Handball,
Campus 8 Volleyball, Basketball, Badminton,
• 3 Lawn Tennis Courts (Synthetic Kabaddi, Kho Kho, Shooting,
& Floodlights) Cricket Nets, Weightlifting, Power
• 4 Volleyball Courts (Synthetic & Lifting, Judo, Fencing & Wrestling
Floodlights) facilities)
Campus 11 Campus 15
• 2 Basketball Court (Synthetic) • 2 Basketball Court (Synthetic)
• 2 Lawn Tennis Court • Indoor Hall (Multi-purpose)
• Indoor Hall (Multi-purpose) • Multi Gym
• 2 Badminton Court • Swimming Pool (Outdoor)
School of Computer Engineering Page 32

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
• Multi Gym • Table Tennis Hall
• Swimming Pool (Outdoor) • Billiards and Snookers Hall
• Squash Hall • Kabaddi Ground
• Table Tennis Hall • 2 Boxing Rings (International
• Billiards and Snookers Hall Standard)
Appendix-D
ACADEMIC CALENDAR
Autumn 1st Semester 2022
(Course: Computer Programming Laboratory (CS-1093)
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration To be declared
Commencement of Classes To be declared
Distribution of course plan by course To be declared
faculty
Pre-Mid semester Session To be declared
Informing 50% of the continuous To be declared
evaluation mark to students
Post Mid Semester Session To be declared
Conduct of Practical Examination To be declared
Autumn 3rd Semester 2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 18/07/2022
Commencement of Classes 18/07/2022
Distribution of course plan by 23/07/2022
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 18/07/2022 – 16/09/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 20/09/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 19/09/2022 – 23/09/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 26/09/2022 – 06/12/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination 21/11/2022 – 06/12/2022
End Semester Examination 07/12/2022 – 17/12/2022
School of Computer Engineering Page 33

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Autumn 5th Semester 2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 11/07/2022
Commencement of Classes 11/07/2022
Distribution of course plan by 16/07/2021
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 11/07/2022– 16/09/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 20/09/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 19/09/2022 – 23/09/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 26/09/2022 – 29/11/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination 14/11/2022 – 29/11/2022
End Semester Examination 30/11/2022 – 10/12/2022
Autumn 7th Semester 2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 04/07/2022
Commencement of Classes 04/07/2022
Distribution of course plan by 09/07/2022
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 04/07/2022 – 16/09/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 20/09/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 19/09/2022 – 23/09/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 26/09/2022 – 22/11/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination 07/11/2022 – 22/11/2022
End Semester Examination 23/11/2022 – 03/12/2022
Spring 2nd Semester 2022
(Course: Computer Programming Laboratory (CS-1093)
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 16/02/2022
Commencement of Classes 16/02/2022
Distribution of course plan by course
faculty 23/02/2022
Pre-Mid semester Session 16/02/2022– 16/04/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students 16/04/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 22/04/2022 – 08/06/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination
23/05/2022 – 04/06/2022
School of Computer Engineering Page 34

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Spring 4th Semester 2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 03/01/2022
Commencement of Classes 03/01/2022
Distribution of course plan by 10/01/2022
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 03/01/2022 – 04/03/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 04/03/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 07/03/2022 – 12/03/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 14/03/2022 – 13/05/2022
End Semester Examination 16/05/2022 – 31/05/2022
Spring 6th Semester 2021-2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 14/12/2021
Commencement of Classes 14/12/2021
Distribution of course plan by 20/12/2021
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 14/12/2021– 11/02/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 14/02/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 14/02/2022– 19/02/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 21/02/2022 – 22/04/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination 07/04/2022 – 21/04/2022
End Semester Examination 25/04/2022 – 07/05/2022
Spring 8th Semester 2021-2022
ACTIVITY DATE
Reporting & Registration 14/12/2021
Commencement of Classes 14/12/2021
Distribution of course plan by 20/12/2021
course faculty
Pre-Mid Semester Session 14/12/2021– 11/02/2022
Informing 50% of the continuous
evaluation mark to students by 14/02/2022
the course teacher
Mid Semester Examination 14/02/2022– 19/02/2022
Post Mid Semester Session 21/02/2022 – 22/04/2022
Conduct of Practical Examination 07/04/2022 – 21/04/2022
End Semester Examination 25/04/2022 – 07/05/2022
School of Computer Engineering Page 35

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Appendix-E
Fee structure for Certificates & Reports Issuance
The students can obtain their certificates/reports on payment of the
following charges:
Sl Certificates/ Reports Amount (Rs) Issuing
No. Authority
First Dupl.
copy copy
1 Semester Grade Report Nil 150 Dean
2 Final Grade Report Nil 500 Dean
3 Provisional Certificate Nil Nil Dean
4 Migration Certificate 200 300 Registrar
5 Final Degree Certificate Nil 1000 Dean
6 Transcript Certificate 500 500 Registrar
7 Transfer/College Leaving
Nil 200
Dean
Certificate
8 Rank Certificate 500 500 Dean
9 Attempt Certificate 500 500 Dean
10 Registration Certificate Nil 150 Dean
Students need to apply for certificates/reports to the issuing authority
through Compliance cell (Mail Id: compliance.cse@kiit.ac.in) with their
proof of identity and address. The University will send the
certificates/reports by post to the student by charging an additional
payment of the Rs 300/- (inside India) and $ 60 (outside India) as postal
fee. However, the University does not take any liability for any misplacement
or damage of the parcel by the post.
Transcript certificates are issued by submitting photo copy of FGR/SGR of
any semester and addresses of the Institutes requiring the Transcripts.
In case of issue of duplicate certificates/reports, student has to submit an
application to the issuing authority with the following documents:
1. Photo copy of the lost certificate, if available.
2. Copy of the FIR/Affidavit, if lost.
3. Certificate to be returned, if damaged.
4. Student Photo to be uploaded (Online)
5. Money Receipt
School of Computer Engineering Page 36

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Appendix-F
University Ranking and Achievements
 KIIT Wins „THE Awards Asia‟ 2020
 Ranked No 1 among the Private Higher Education Indian
Universities in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation
Achievements (ARIIA), an initiative of (MHRD), Govt. of India.
 First Indian university to get Internationalization Strategies
Advisory Service (ISAS) Badge.
 Institution Of Eminence (IoE) Tag From UGC
 KIIT holds ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE)
2019 on four sustainable development parameters. In terms of
these parameters, KIIT has got 101-200 position with respect to
Reduced Inequalities; 201+ in Peace, Justice and Strong
Institutions and 301+ in Quality Education.
Overall 301+ position globally.
 Conferred Category „A‟ status by Ministry of Human Resources
Development, Government of India in 2014
 „Tier 1‟ Accreditation for Undergraduate Engineering
programmes by National Board of Accreditation, which is a
permanent signatory member of Washington Accord
 Education Excellence Award for Best Private University by
Brands Academy
 Best University award by Europe Business Assembly
 Best University of the year Award by ASSOCHAM
 Best Regional University Award by The Socrates Committee, UK
School of Computer Engineering Page 37

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Appendix -G
Point of Contact for Requirement Redressal
Sl. Nature of Requirement Authorized Department
No. (Email ID)
1. Bonafide Certificate for:
i. Education Loan
ii. Scholarship
iii. Course-continuing
iv. Passport
v. Application for higher studies
2. Railway Concession Pass School Compliance Cell
Issue of Grade Reports/ Provisional (compliance.cse@kiit.ac.in)
3. Degree Certificate/ Degree
Certificate/ College Leaving
Certificate/ Conduct Certificate
4. Extension for Academic/ Hostel
Fees Payment
5. Open Electives or Department
Electives related Queries
6. Rank Certificate
No Backlog Certificate
7. Head Signature on Application Form
(GATE, CAT etc.)
Discrepancy in marks, grades,
Assistant CoE
8. answer sheets for B.Tech 2020 &
(acoe.cese@kiit.ac.in)
2019 admitted batch students,
M.Tech. and Ph.D. students
Discrepancy in marks, grades,
Assistant CoE
9. answer sheets for B.Tech 2018 &
(acoe.csit@kiit.ac.in)
2017 admitted batch students
Correction of Name, DOB & Change Admission
10. of Address (swapna.mohanty@kiit.ac.in)
Issues related to Scholarship
Laptop related issues ICT Cell
(delivery/technical faults) (laptop.service@kiit.ac.in)
11. (helpdesk@kiit.ac.in)
Issue related to inclusion in the
12. school email group id (helpdesk@kiit.ac.in)
School of Computer Engineering Page 38

Student Hand Book of Information [2022-23]
Point of Contact for Requirement Redressal (Cont.)
Sl. Nature of Requirement Authorized Department
No. (Email ID)
School Library
13. Library books & Library access (beda_sahoo@kiit.ac.in)
(bijaylaxmi@kiit.ac.in)
14. Fee Discrepancy & SAP
Accounts Section
reflection
(manoj.meher@kiit.ac.in)
Hostel Matters Hostel
15. (hostel@kiit.ac.in)
Bonafied Certificate for
16. Internship & queries related School T&P Cell
to Training, Placement and (tnp.scs@kiit.ac.in)
Internship
17. Recreational Facility Access (sports.kiit@gmail.com)
18. Student Counseling (sucheta@kiit.ac.in)
19. Student Activity KSAC
(shyam.behura@kids.ac.in)
20. Unable to download the slcm.kiit@kiit.ac.in
semester grade sheet
21. University Guest House kiitguesthouse@kiit.ac.in
Booking
School of Computer Engineering Page 39
