Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT)
Deemed to be University U/S 3 of UGC Act, 1956

CONTENTS
1. School Vision and Mission
2. Programmes Offered by the School
3. Programme Educational Objectives
4. Programme Outcomes and Programme Specific Outcomes
5. Guidelines for UG curriculum
6. Course Structure
7. Professional Electives
8. HASS Electives
9. Vocational Electives
10.K- Xplore Electives
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 2

Vision
To produce quality engineering graduates by imparting quality education and
research in the field of computer science and information technology in order
to respond swiftly the challenges of 21st century.
Mission
 To provide quality professional education in science and technology in
fields relating to computer science and information technology that
enable students to effectively apply this education to solve real-world
problems.
 To provide a platform for students that helps students to inculcate
event management skills and entrepreneurial skills.
 To create an ambience that helps students realizing social
responsibilities and values of professional ethics.
 To conduct research in advanced and application-oriented arena
relating to computer and information science involving students with
promote on continuous learning.
 To establish strong bonding with globally leading industries.
The School of Computer Engineering offers the following Programmes:
 Computer Science and Engineering
 Information Technology
 Computer Science and Communication Engineering
 Computer Science and Systems Engineering
Programme Educational Objectives (PEO)
The Program Educational Objectives (PEO) expects professional
accomplishments from our graduates.
PEO1- The graduates shall provide solutions to Computer Science &
Engineering problems involving design, simulation, and analysis of
algorithms for theory and applications of computing.
PEO2- The graduates shall perceive the limitations and impact of
engineering solutions in social, legal, ethical, environmental,
economical, and multidisciplinary contexts.
PEO3- The graduates shall demonstrate professional responsibility and
thrive to reinforce their knowledge being a part of formal or informal
educational programs.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 3

Programme Outcomes (PO)
1. Engineering knowledge: Ability to apply the knowledge of
mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering
specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
2. Problem analysis: Ability to identify, formulate, review research
literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching
substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural
sciences, and engineering sciences.
3. Design/Development of solutions: Ability to design solutions for
complex engineering problems and design system components or
processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration
for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and
environmental considerations.
4. Conduct investigations on complex problems: Ability to use
research-based knowledge and research methods including design of
experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the
information to provide valid conclusions.
5. Modern tool usage: Ability to create, select, and apply appropriate
techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including
prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an
understanding of the limitations.
6. The engineer and society: Ability to apply reasoning informed by the
contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and
cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the
professional engineering practice.
7. Environment and sustainability: Ability to understand the impact of
the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental
contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable
development.
8. Ethics: Ability to apply ethical principles and commit to professional
ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
9. Individual and team: Ability to function effectively as an individual,
and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary
settings.
10. Communication: Ability to communicate effectively on complex
engineering activities with the engineering community and with society
at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports
and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and
receive clear instructions.
11. Project management and finance: Ability to demonstrate
knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management
principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader
in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
12. Life-long learning: Ability to recognize the need for, and have the
preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning
in the broadest context of technological change.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 4

Programme Specific Outcome (PSO)
1. Ability to design and develop hardware and software in emerging
technology environments like cloud computing, embedded products and
real-time systems.
2. Ability to work in multidisciplinary teams in small and large scale
projects by utilizing modern software engineering tools and emerging
technologies.
3. Ability to develop complex products for the societal and engineering
needs with skills to communicate effectively in group discussions and
report writing.
CURRICULUM
The total minimum credits required for completing the B. Tech. programme in
Computer Science and Engineering is 162
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 5

Guidelines for UG Engineering Curriculum – 2022
The curricula for B.Tech. courses have been designed following the general
principles of curricular design and developing certain guiding strategies in
order to build in the engineering graduate attributes in the courses.
Principles in Designing the Curricula
The overriding principles in designing the new curricula are that the curricula
must (1) Impart specialized and interdisciplinary knowledge and creative
problem-solving skills; (2) Reflect aspirations of the society to turn out
technology-ready and socially conscious graduates to anticipate and avoid
future problems; (3) Leverage the strengths and help making up the
weaknesses of the university; (4) Inform the students about new technologies
and the emerging social, environmental, and global forces, and (5) Give
students the confidence to work in teams and in multi-cultural settings.
Key Graduate Attributes
Engineers are agents of social change. They interact with the common man to
know and define the current and the looming future problems, develop
sustainable design solutions using their science and engineering skills, and
implement sustainable solutions. Thus, the graduating students must (1)
Acquire knowledge and skills—both technical and soft skills such as
communication, leadership, and skills of working in multi-cultural,
interdisciplinary teams; (2) Develop the mental disposition to understand,
conceptualize, and define complex, real-world problems; (3) Be independent,
critical thinkers to inquire into the root causes of the problems; (4) Analyse
the relevant data and social, economic, and political forces influencing these
problems; (5) Synthesize knowledge and diverse perspectives and approaches
to find technically and financially viable, sustainable, creative, ethical
solutions by evaluating novel alternatives; (6) Use project planning and
scheduling methods, establish institutional mechanisms, and communicate
the plans and schedules and inspire the concerned individuals to implement
the solutions; (7) Imbibe professional values and ethics, and (8) Be life-long
learners with empathy for others.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 6

Strategies for Curriculum Design
Strategies to design the curricula include (1) Understanding the dominant
technological and social changes in the world, (2) Incorporating
recommendations of the National Education Policy 2020 with respect to
design of curricula, (3) Adding the novel features and best curricular practices
of leading universities and institutes in India and abroad, (4) Recognizing the
UGC and AICTE guidelines and ABET recommendations; (5) Using the
opportunities that KIIT offers for multi- and inter-disciplinarity education, and
(6) Delivering the key attributes and skills which the graduating students
should be equipped with.
The Structure of the Curricula
The undergraduate engineering curricula are designed to inculcate in the
students the graduate attributes indicated above. The curricula include (1)
foundational subjects in the fields of humanities, social sciences, science,
engineering science, and vocational courses, (2) depth subjects—both core
and electives related to the respective disciplines, (3) open electives in diverse
fields of humanities, arts, science, engineering, social science, management,
law, public policy, media studies, etc., and (4) practice-based subjects. These
subjects reflect a mix of theory, hands-on laboratory practice, short- and
long-duration projects, field visits, internship, and extra- and co-curricular
activities. The Institute has created many avenues for students to organize,
lead, and actively participate in social, cultural, and techno-management
functions to develop soft social and behavioural skills.
UG Programmes Offered by the Schools of Technology
The B. Tech. (Hons.) and B. Tech. (Res.) programmes offered by various
Schools of Technology are tabulated below.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 7

Name of the School B. Tech. (Hons.) and B. Tech. (Res.) Programmes
Offered
School of Civil Civil Engineering
Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Information Technology
School of Computer
Engineering
Computer Science and Communication Engineering
Computer Science and Systems Engineering
School of Electrical Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
School of Electronics
Electronics and Computer Science Engineering
Engineering
Electronics and Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical (Automobile Engineering)
School of Mechanical
Engineering
Mechatronics Engineering
Aerospace Engineering
Highlights of the Curricula
1. The curricula allow the students to opt for either a B. Tech. (Hon.)
degree or a B. Tech. (Res.) degree.
2. All the B. Tech. curricula have total of 160 – 165 credits.
3. The curricula provide for a Minor in selected areas if students fulfil
additional credit requirements.
4. With the inclusion of many Humanities, Arts, and Social Science (HASS)
subjects, the curricula are HASS-rich.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 8

5. The curricula provide flexibility in many forms. The students can
choose subjects from a large number science, HASS, and engineering
electives. They can also choose subjects from lists of professional
electives and open electives. The professional electives allow the
students to concentrate in selected areas, whereas the open electives
allow the students to opt for minors.
6. To ensure an all-round development of students, the curricula have
included subjects like Yoga, Universal Human Values, a
Community/Environment-based Project, a Vocational Elective, Industry
4.0 Technologies, and K-Explore that consider students’ co- and extra-
curricular activities for evaluation.
7. The curricula have included subjects like Scientific and Technical
Writing and Research Methods and Ethics to instill research and
research communication skills in the students.
8. The curricula have also provided for independent projects in the last
three semesters to train the students in the art and science of
identifying pressing problems and finding their sustainable solutions.
Notes and Guidelines
Science Core
Science forms the foundation of engineering. Subjects related to physical,
chemical, biological, environmental, and mathematical sciences are covered in
the first four semesters in the form core and elective subjects. The core
subjects in science are the following:
Semester I/II: Physics, Chemistry, Science of Living Systems,
Environmental Science, Differential Equations and Linear
Algebra, Transform Calculus and Numerical Analysis,
Physics Lab, and Chemistry Lab.
Semester III: Probability & Statistics
Semester IV: Selected Topics in Mathematics (Syllabi to be
different for different Schools)
Engineering Science Core
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 9

Engineering science subjects provide a bridge between science and
engineering. The related subjects are included as both core and electives.
The semester-wise distribution of the core engineering science subjects is
given below.
Semester I/II: Basic Electronics, Programming & Data Structures or
Programming Lab, Engineering Drawing & Graphics,
Workshop Practice, and Engineering Lab
Half the number of experiments in Engineering Lab will
relate to Basic Electronics and the other half to the subject
the student picks from the list of Engineering Elective I
subjects.
Semester III: Industry 4.0 Technologies
HASS Core
The curricula include HASS subjects as both core and electives. The HASS
subjects that improve the written and rhetoric skills, life skills and research
skills of students are included as core subjects. Semester-wise distribution
of these subjects are given below:
The semester-wise distribution of language- and human values-related
subjects is given below:
Semester I/II: English (to develop language skills and skills for
making critical analysis of English literature)
Semester I/II: Communication Lab (to develop skills of Listening,
Speaking, and Writing)
Semester I/II: Yoga (to bring about unity of mind and body)
Semester III: Scientific and Technical Writing (to develop skills of
writing varieties of scientific and technical documents)
Semester VI: Universal Human Values (to develop and respect
human values) and Engineering Professional Practice (to
understand roles and responsibilities of engineers and the
ethical and selected legal issues)
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 10

Semester VIII: Research Methods and Ethics (for B. Tech. (Res.)
students)
Professional Core
Professional core subjects form the backbone of an engineering discipline.
Every School of Technology decides the list of core subjects that its students
must credit. These can be theory and laboratory subjects. These subjects are
diffused in Semester III through Semester VI.
Engineering Professional Practice, a professional core subject, is included as a
HASS Elective but will be taught by engineering faculty.
Research Core
Students pursuing B. Tech. (Res.) programme have to go through a course on
Research Methods and Ethics, which is offered in Semester VII.
Science, Engineering Science, and HASS Electives
Options are available to the students to choose subjects from lists of science,
engineering science, and HASS electives. Their distributions in the curricula
are as under:
Semester I/II: Science Electives, Engineering Electives I and II, and
HASS Electives I.
Semester IV: HASS Electives II
Semester V: HASS Electives III
Semester VI: HASS Electives IV
HASS Elective I includes Community/Environment-based project as one of
the subjects. Done as a group work, the subject gives the students an
opportunity to connect with the community and the environment, learn and
prioritize their problems, and define them in ways that make them amenable
to scientific analysis and pragmatic solution.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 11

The lists of Science, Engineering Science, and HASS electives will be available
in the ERP. Before a semester begins the Institute will announce the subjects
that will be offered in that semester and the students will have to give their
choice of electives out of the offered subjects.
Vocational Elective
Vocational Elective courses provide engineering students a deeper
appreciation of the practical aspects of engineering and allow them to relate
their theoretical knowledge with practical skills. This subject is included in
Semester III. A student must opt for one of the vocational electives which will
be announced at the beginning of a semester.
Open Electives
Open electives allow students to choose subjects from lists of subjects offered
by all the Schools. It is through these subjects that a student can pursue his
or her latent interests in specific areas and work towards earning a Minor in
an area which is outside his (or her) major engineering branch (if the subjects
are selected in specific designated areas). These subjects are offered in
Semester V through Semester VIII:
Semester V: K-Explore—Practice-based Open Elective I
Semester VI – VIII: Open Electives II, III, and IV
K-Explore is a 1-Credit Practice-based Open Elective that allows the students
to use the scope that the Clubs and the Societies of KIIT University provides
to learn the skills of Dance, Music, Photography, etc. and of conducting
seminars and conferences through training, practice, and direct involvement.
Minor
The curricula allow a student to earn a Minor in an area outside the core
discipline in which he (or she) has registered. For example, a student doing B.
Tech in Mechanical Engineering (his/her parent branch) can choose to have a
Minor in Computer Science Engineering. To get a Minor, a student must
(i) Get the fourth semester CGPA of 7.0 or more,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 12

(ii) Successfully fulfill the coursework requirement for at least six
theory subjects and two credit Lab/project subjects in an area or
discipline other than the one for which he (or she) is registered,
and
(iii) Complete at least 20 Credits of coursework in that area.
Thus, if a student has taken three Open Electives in one area other than his
(or her) own then he (or she) must choose three theory subjects and two
Lab/project subjects in that area in the Fourth year.
If no Lab subject is available in that Minor, then the student must choose an
additional theory subject with at least 2 Credits. Students having no backlogs
till the end of Semester 4 and a minimum CGPA of 7.0 will only be allowed to
opt for the Minor scheme. Students opting for Minor have to mandatorily
attend a minimum of 75% Theory and Lab classes (as the case may be) failing
which the Minor option will be withdrawn.
Professional Electives
Professional elective subjects provide the students the opportunity to
concentrate in certain specific areas of their interest. These subjects are
offered in Semester V through Semester VIII for B. Tech. (Hons.) students
(total 15 credits) and in Semester V through Semester VI for B. Tech. (Res.)
students (total 9 credits). The distribution of these subjects is given below:
Semester V: Professional Electives (6),
Semester VI: Professional Electives (3),
Semester VII: Professional Electives Theory (3 Credits) for only B.
Tech (Hons.) students
Semester VIII: Professional Core Theory (3 Credits) for only B. Tech
(Hons.) students
Research Electives
The students pursuing B. Tech. (Res.) degree may need specialized knowledge
in the areas of their theses. For this reason, the curriculum provides for two
research electives to be selected in Semester VII and Semester VIII. Every
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 13

School prepares a list of Research Electives and announces, at the beginning
of every semester, the subject which will be offered in that semester. The
student is required to select the electives from out of these offered lists.
Summer Internship
Internship exposes the students to the realities of engineering systems. Every
student must go through at least 60 days of internship. It can be taken in an
industrial organization or at an institute of higher learning in the summer
breaks after the second year and/or after the third year. Internship carries 2
Credits. And the grade secured by a student appears in the Semester VII
Grade Sheet of the student.
Projects
Projects allow the students to work under the supervision of a faculty advisor
and apply their acquired knowledge to solve the real-world problems. They
define problems, mine information from past works, conceptualize forces and
factors that impact the problems, develop design solutions, and demonstrate
the effectiveness of the solutions. Semester-wise distribution of this subject is
given below:
Semester VI: Mini Project (2 Credits)
Semester VII: Project I (5 Credits)
Semester VIII: Project II (9 Credits for B. Tech. (Hons.) and 12
Credits for B. Tech. (Res.))
Semester-away Provision for Project II
The Institute sometimes allows a student to carry out the fourth-year project
(Project II) away from the University campus if the following conditions are
satisfied:
 This provision applies to Project II.
 That means a student can avail of this provision in Semester VIII.
 The project must be done either in an industrial unit or in an academic
institution.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 14

 The organization in which the student wishes to carry out the project
must give in writing that it will provide all facilities (office space,
equipment, instrument, data, and travel and stay facilities, if possible)
for the student to do the project. In addition, it will also identify a
senior and competent employee of the organization to whom the student
will report.
 The faculty supervisor must recommend the student’s application for
availing the semester-away provision.
 A co-supervisor from the organization may be appointed for the project.
 The intending student gives an undertaking that he (or she) will
- Remain in constant touch with the faculty supervisor,
- Send monthly progress reports to the supervisor,
- Give seminar presentations, whenever required.
- Collect class notes, read books, and prepare for and appear at the
examinations (online, if necessary). The student must also do and
submit all home assignments given by the teachers and give seminar
presentation (online) if necessary.
Since Semester VIII curricula have one theory subject (B. Tech. (Res.)) and
two theory subjects (B. Tech. (Hons.)) students, a student applying for this
provision will be exempted from attending the lectures on these subjects. But
the student must give an undertaking that it will be his (or her) responsibility
to collect class notes, read books and other reading materials, submit all
home assignments, give seminar presentations (online if required) and
prepare for and appear at the examinations.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 15

SCHEME I
FIRST SEMESTER
Theory
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 PH10001 Physics 3 0 0 3 3
2 MA11001 Differential Equations 3 1 0 4 4
and Linear Algebra
3 Science Elective 2 0 0 2 2
4 Engineering Elective II 2 0 0 2 2
5 LS10001 Science of Living Systems 2 0 0 2 2
6 CH10003 Environmental Science 2 0 0 2 2
Total Credit (Theory Subjects) 15 15
Practical
1 PH19001 Physics Lab 0 0 2 2 1
2 CS13001 Programming Lab 0 2 4 6 4
Sessional
1 CE18001 Engineering Drawing & 0 0 2 2 1
Graphics
Total Credit ( Practical & Sessional subject) 10 6
Total Credit (Semester) 25 21
SCHEME I
SECOND SEMESTER
Theory
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 CH10001 Chemistry 3 0 0 3 3
2 MA11002 Transform Calculus and 3 1 0 4 4
Numerical Analysis
3 HS10001 English 2 0 0 2 2
4 EC10001 Basic Electronics 2 0 0 2 2
5 Engineering Elective I 2 0 0 2 2
6 HASS Elective I 2 0 0 2 2
Total Credit (Theory Subjects) 15 15
Practical
1 CH19001 Chemistry Lab 0 0 2 2 1
2 EX19001 Engineering Lab 0 0 2 2 1
Sessional
1 ME18001 Workshop 0 0 2 2 1
2 YG18001 Yoga 0 0 2 2 1
3 HS18001 Communication Lab 0 0 2 2 1
Total Credit (Practical & Sessional Subjects) 10 5
Total Credit (Semester) 25 20
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 16

SCHEME II
FIRST SEMESTER
Theory
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 CH10001 Chemistry 3 0 0 3 3
2 MA11001 Differential Equations 3 1 0 4 4
and Linear Algebra
3 HS10001 English 2 0 0 2 2
4 EC10001 Basic Electronics 2 0 0 2 2
5 Engineering Elective I 2 0 0 2 2
6 HASS Elective I 2 0 0 2 2
Total Credit (Theory Subjects) 15 15
Practical
1 CH19001 Chemistry Lab 0 0 2 2 1
2 EX19001 Engineering Lab 0 0 2 2 1
Sessional
1 YG18001 Yoga 0 0 2 2 1
2 ME18001 Workshop 0 0 2 2 1
3 HS18001 Communication Lab 0 0 2 2 1
Total Credit (Practical & Sessional Subjects) 10 5
Total Credit (Semester) 25 20
SCHEME II
SECOND SEMESTER
Theory
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 PH10001 Physics 3 0 0 3 3
2 MA11001 Differential Equations 3 1 0 4 4
and Linear Algebra
3 Science Elective 2 0 0 2 2
4 Engineering Elective II 2 0 0 2 2
5 LS10001 Science of Living Systems 2 0 0 2 2
6 CH10003 Environmental Science 2 0 0 2 2
Total Credit (Theory Subjects) 15 15
Practical
1 PH19001 Physics Lab 0 0 2 2 1
2 CS13001 Programming Lab 0 2 4 6 4
Sessional
1 CE18001 Engineering Drawing & 0 0 2 2 1
Graphics
Total Credit (Practical & Sessional Subjects) 10 6
Total Credit (Semester) 25 21
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 17

LIST OF ELECTIVES
Engineering Elective I
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 CE10001 Basic Civil Engineering 2 0 0 2 2
2 ME10003 Basic Mechanical 2 0 0 2 2
Engineering
3 EE10002 Basic Electrical 2 0 0 2 2
Engineering
Engineering Elective II
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 EE10001 Elements of Machine 2 0 0 2 2
Learning*
2 ME10001 Engineering Mechanics 2 0 0 2 2
3 EC10003 Biomedical Engineering 2 0 0 2 2
4 EE10003 Basic Instrumentation 2 0 0 2 2
*Not for students of Computer Engineering
Science Elective
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 CH10005 Nanoscience 2 0 0 2 2
2 PH10003 Smart Materials 2 0 0 2 2
3 LS10003 Molecular Diagnostics 2 0 0 2 2
4 PE10002 Science of Public Health 2 0 0 2 2
5 MA10003 Optimization Techniques 2 0 0 2 2
HASS Elective I
Sl. Course Subjects L T P Total Credit
No. Code
1 HS10013 Society, Science, and 2 0 0 2 2
Technology
2 HS10202 Essential of Management 2 0 0 2 2
3 HS10121 Shades of Economics 2 0 0 2 2
4 HS10123 India Economy Post 2 0 0 2 2
Liberalisation
5 SO10043 Socio-Political Environment 2 0 0 2 2
6 PS10043 Thinking Perspectives 2 0 0 2 2
7 PS10045 Creativity, Innovation and 2 0 0 2 2
Entrepreneurship
8 EX17001 Community/Environment- 0 0 4 2 2
based Project
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 18

Detailed Syllabus
Course Title Physics
Course Code (Credit) PH10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
This subject is designed to enrich the basic knowledge of engineering students
in the field of physics and to support the engineering and research programs.
The subject will also help the students to develop mathematical models to
understand the behavior of physical systems and phenomena.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Oscillation:
Damped Harmonic Oscillation (under damped, over damped and critically
damped), Energy decay, Relaxation time, Quality factor, Forced oscillation,
Resonance, Coupled oscillations, Applications.
UNIT II
Waves and Interference:
Wave equation, Superposition of waves, Interference of light, Types of
interference: Division of wave front and division of amplitude.
UNIT III
Interference in thin films:
Wedge shaped thin film, Newton’s rings and their applications, Michelson
interferometer, Applications.
UNIT IV
Diffraction:
Diffraction and its applications, Types of diffraction, Fraunhofer diffraction by
a single slit, Plane diffraction grating (condition of maxima, minima),
Maximum order of observable spectra, Absent spectra, and Dispersive power,
Applications.
UNIT V
Quantum Mechanics:
Dual nature of radiation and matter, de Broglie hypothesis for matter waves,
Phase velocity and Group velocity, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle and
applications, Wave function and its interpretation, Concepts of operators,
Schrodinger’s time-dependent and time-independent equations, Postulates of
Quantum mechanics, Particle in one-dimensional box and applications,
Quantum tunnelling and applications.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 19

UNIT VI
Electromagnetic Theory:
Vector calculus: scalar and vector field, Gradient, divergence and curl, Line,
surface and volume integrals, Gauss divergence and Stoke’s theorem,
Maxwell's equations in differential and integral form with necessary
derivations. Electromagnetic wave equations, Transverse nature of
electromagnetic waves.
UNIT VII
Laser and Fiber Optics:
LASER: Properties and applications, Spontaneous and stimulated emission,
Meta-stable state, Population inversion, Pumping, Three and four-level Laser,
Ruby Laser.
UNIT VIII
Optical fiber
Principle, Construction, Types of optical fiber, Acceptance angle, Numerical
aperture, Applications.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Learn the basic concepts of oscillation, waves, wave function and
fields.
CO2 : Understand the principles of wave phenomena in light and matter, and
the quantum mechanics.
CO3 : Apply the principles of oscillation, superposition of waves,
electromagnetic theory, and quantum mechanics in different fields.
CO4 : Analyze different types of particle motion in different media.
CO5 : Evaluate the problem-solving skills for the topics learnt.
CO6 : Develop critical thinking ability supported by the learned concepts of
Physics.
Textbook
1. B. K. Pandey and S. Chaturvedi, Engineering Physics, Cengage
Publication, New Delhi, 2nd Edition 2022, ISBN-13: 978-81-953536-7-5.
Reference Books
1. D J Griffiths, Introduction to Electrodynamics, Pearson Education, 4th
Edition, 2015.
2. L. I. Schiff and J. Bandhyopadhyay, Quantum Mechanics, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publications, 4th Edition, 2014, ISBN- 9781259062865.
3. A K Ghatak, Optics, Tata McGraw-Hill Publications, 4th Edition, 2008,
ISBN: 9780070262157.
4. A. Beiser, Concepts of Modern Physics ,Tata McGraw-Hill Publications,
6th Edition, 2002, ISBN 10: 0071234608.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 20

5. R K Gaur and S. L. Gupta, Engineering Physics, Dhanpat Rai
Publications, New Delhi, 2nd Edition, 2012, ISBN-10: 8189928228.
Course Title Chemistry
Course Code (Credit) CH10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
This course is designed to enrich the students with the basic concepts in
Chemistry and to strengthen their fundamentals which will support them to
pursue education and research in engineering. The course will help the
students to conceptualize alternative sources of energy by electrochemical
means and use the instrumental techniques to explore chemical products.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Chemical Equilibrium and Thermodynamics:
Introduction, Internal energy, Enthalpy, Entropy and free energy, Dependence
of free energy on temperature and pressure, Gibbs-Helmholtz equation, Free
energy change and equilibrium constants, Van’t Hoff isotherm and isochore,
Clapeyron- Clausius equation, Partial molar properties, Chemical potential,
and Gibbs-Duhem equation.
UNIT II
Chemical Kinetics:
Rate of reaction and rate laws of multiple reactions (steady-state
approximation), and of parallel, opposing and consecutive reactions; Theories
of reaction rate: Collision theory, Lindemann modification, Absolute reaction
rate; Catalysis: Types, theories, and kinetics of enzyme catalysis (Michaelis-
Menten mechanism).
UNIT III
Spectroscopy:
UV-Vis spectroscopy: Beer-Lamberts law, Types of transition, Concept of
auxochrome and chromophores, Factors affecting and, Woodward-Fieser
max
rules for calculation of in diene systems; IR spectroscopy: Types of
max
vibration, Hooks law, detection of functional groups like C=C, -OH, -NH and -
2
C=O;
UNIT IV
NMR Spectroscopy:
Basics of NMR Spectroscopy: Theory, Chemical shift, Shilding-deshilding
effect, Structural elucidation of simple compounds.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 21

UNIT V
Electrochemical Energy Systems:
Types of electrodes, electrode/cell potential; Nernst equation and application
to: find electrode and cell potential, equilibrium constant, solubility product
and pH; Modern batteries: Fuel cells (AFCs, PEMFs, SOFCs, MCFCs), Zn-air
battery, Li-ion battery, Na-ion battery, Ni-MH battery.
UNIT VI
Smart and Intelligent Materials:
Introduction to smart materials, Properties and types of smart materials,
Structures, System intelligence- components and classification of smart
structures, Common smart materials and associated stimulus-response,
Application areas of smart systems.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Rationalize bulk properties and processes using thermodynamic
consideration and apply the knowledge to decide the feasibility of a
given process,
CO2 : Analyze the kinetics of multistep reactions as well as the theories of
reaction rates,
CO3 : Understand the importance of catalysis and their mechanism of action
and applications,
CO4 : Apply the principles of electrochemistry to evaluate properties, such
as pH, solubility Product, etc. and understand the working principle of
modern batteries,
CO5 : Apply different spectroscopic techniques, such as UV-Vis, IR and
NMR, for structural Elucidation, and
CO6 : Differentiate between smart and intelligent materials.
Textbooks:
1. S Chawala, Engineering Chemistry, Dhanpat Rai and Co, 4th Edition,
ISBN: 9788177001938.
Reference Books:
1. S Agarwal, Engineering Chemistry: Fundamentals and Applications,
Cambridge University Press, ISBN: 9781107476417.
2. S. Chakroborty, S. Sen, and S. Mittal, Engineering Chemistry, Cengage
Learning India Pvt. Ltd., ISBN: ‎9386668645.
3. B.R. Puri, L.R Sharma, and M. S. Pathania, Principles of Physical
Chemistry, Vishal Publishing Co., 47th Edition, ISBN: 978-9382956013.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 22

4. R M. Silverstein, Fransis X, Webster, D J Kiemle, Spectrometric
Identification of Organic compounds, -Jhon Wiley& Sons, INC, 7th
Edition.
5. S Glasstone, Elements of Physical chemistry-, Macmillan publishers,
2nd Edition ISBN: 978-0333038437.
6. D.J. Leo, Engineering Analysis of Smart Material Systems, Wiley 2007,
1st Edition ISBN: 978-0471684770.
Course Title Environmental Science
Course Code (Credit) CH10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
This course is designed to create awareness in the students on monitoring,
assessment, and management of environmental pollutants. The subject will
also make the students aware of more benign chemistry, i.e., green chemistry,
and help them to understand the implementation of Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA).
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Overview of the Environment:
Overview of the environment, terminologies, Components of Earth:
Lithosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere, Concept of black body
radiation and albedo, eZro-dimensional energy balance model.
UNIT II
Air Pollution and Control:
Primary and secondary air pollutants, CFC, Smog (oxidizing and reducing),
Important environmental issues: Depletion of the ozone layer, Acid Rain,
Greenhouse effect and global warming, Control measures: Baghouse filter,
Cyclone separator, Electrostatic precipitator, Catalytic converter, and
Scrubber.
UNIT III
Water Pollution and Control:
Types and sources of water pollutants, wastewater treatment techniques:
Ultrafiltration, aerobic and anaerobic treatment, Reverse osmosis,
Electrodialysis, Ddisinfection by chlorination, Ozonization, Modern water
purification system, Water quality parameters like hardness, Water softening
process (permutit), WHO guidelines for drinking water.
UNIT IV
Soil Pollution and Solid Waste Management:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 23

Soil pollution: Sources of pollutants and mitigation measures. Types of solid
wastes: Heavy metal, bio-medical and radioactive wastes, Toxic and
biochemical effects of solid wastes, Solid waste management (landfilling,
incineration, and composting).
UNIT V
Green Chemistry and EIA:
Basic principles of green chemistry with examples, Matrices to explain
greenness, R4M4 model, life cycle analysis. Importance, scope and principles
of EIA with a case study.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1 : Understand the components and composition of the environment
along with the radiation balance model,
CO2 : Rationalize the different types of pollutants, their sources, effects, and
control measures,
CO3 : Develop the idea of water purification strategies,
CO4 : Identify toxic wastes and conceptualize the principles of solid waste
management,
CO5 : Conceptualize the principles of green chemistry and implement them
in the synthesis of advanced material, to reduce pollution, and
CO6 :Provide for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) requirements
before planning a project.
Textbooks:
1. A. K. De, Environmental Chemistry, New Age International Publishers,
9th Edition.
Reference Books:
1. S. Chakroborty, D. Dave, and S. S. Katewa, Environmental Chemistry-,
Cengage Learning India Pvt. Ltd., 1st Edition.
2. Aloka Debi, Environment Science and Engineering, Universities
Press,2nd Edition.
3. Erach Bharucha, Textbooks: of Environment studies for undergraduate
courses, Universities Press, 2nd Edition.
4. D. De and D. De, Fundamentals of Environment and Ecology, S. Chand
&Co, 2013.
5. Jain and Jain, Engineering Chemistry, Dhanpat Rai,Publishing
Company.
6. S.C. Santra, Environmental Science,New Central Book Agency, ISBN:
9788173814044.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 24

Course Title Physics Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CH19001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
This lab course covers different measurement techniques of various
parameters using the instruments i.e. interferometer, spectrometer,
spherometer, screw gauge, vernier calliper, microscope, and telescope. It
includes the application of photoelectric effect and photovoltaic effect in photo
cell and solar cell respectively. Evaluation of the mechanical strength of
materials by calculating elastic constants such as Young’s modulus, rigidity
modulus and Poisson’s ratio are also included. This course provides hands on
training for the usage of electrical, optical and mechanical systems for various
measurements with precision and analysis of the experimental data by
graphical interpretation and error calculation.
Course Contents:
Measurement by vernier callipers, screw gauge, spherometer: A review
 Determination of wavelength (λ) of a monochromatic light by Newton’s
ring experiment.
 Determination of wavelength (λ) and difference (dλ) between
wavelengths of sodium D-lines by Michelson’s interferometer.
 Determination of grating element (e+d) of a plane diffraction grating.
 Determination of Planck’s constant using photocell.
 Study of the characteristics of a photo cell.
 Study of the characteristics of a solar cell.
 Determination of Young’s modulus (Y) of a material by bending of beam
method.
 Determination of Poisson’s ratio (σ) of rubber.
 Determination of rigidity modulus (η) of a material by dynamic method.
 Determination of refractive index (µ) of a transparent liquid by Boy’s
method.
 Determination of numerical aperture of optical fibre.
 Determination of acceleration due to gravity (g) by bar pendulum.
 Determination of damping coefficient, relaxation time and quality factor
of damped harmonic oscillation by simple pendulum.
 Measurement of velocity of sound in air using resonance column
method.
 Studies on dielectric/multi-ferroic materials (Open ended)
 Diffraction studies using Laser sources (Open ended)
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 25

CO1 : Understand the wave nature of light through experiments based on
interference and diffraction Phenomena.
CO2 : Apply the laws of quantum physics to understand the photoelectric
emission using the particle nature of light.
CO3 : Characterize photovoltaic cells to find out efficiency in terms of power
output.
CO4 : Evaluate mechanical properties of materials using their elastic
properties.
CO5 : Apply the principles of optics such as refraction, total internal
reflection to calculate refractive index and related parameters.
CO6 : Use the principles of oscillation to understand phenomena such as
damping, resonance and todetermine the factors (such as gravity,
elasticity etc) affecting the time period of various oscillators.
Reference Materials:
1. Physics laboratory instruction manual, School of Applied Sciences,
Department of Physics, KIIT Deemed to be University, Bhubaneswar.
2. S. L. Gupta and V. Kumar, 2018, Practical Physics, Pragati Prakashan,
33rd Edition, ISBN: 978-93-87151-58-1.
Course Title Chemistry Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CH19001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
This lab course covers different types of chemical experiments ranging from
volumetric analysis to spectroscopic techniques. This course provides the
students with hands-on training in many of the advanced spectroscopic and
analytical techniques in chemistry. The experiments in the course span over
diverse applications in chemistry. It contains experiments dealing with
environmental chemistry, volumetric analysis, organic and inorganic
synthesis, electrochemistry, and spectroscopy.
Course Contents:
 Estimation of total hardness in a given water sample in terms of
calcium and magnesium hardness by EDTA method.
 Estimation of the amount of NaOH and Na CO present in a given
2 3
mixture solution
 (a) Determination of the strength of KMnO solution by using standard
4
sodium oxalate solution. (b) Determination of the amount of Ferrous
(Fe2+) ions present in the Mohr's salt solution by using standard KMnO
4
solution.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 26

 Determination of the amount of dissolved oxygen present in a given
water sample by Winkler's method.
 Finding the strength of Fe2+ present in the supplied Mohr’s salt solution
by potentiometric titration.
 Determination of the rate constant of acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of ethyl
acetate.
 Determination of the chloride ion (Cl-) present in a given water sample
by the argentometric method.
 Finding the strength of supplied acid by pH-metric titration against a
standard alkali.
 Finding the strength of a given hydrochloric acid solution by titrating it
against standard sodium hydroxide solution conducto-metrically.
 Verification of Beer Lambert’s Law and application of this law to
determine the unknown concentration of a given solution.
 Determination of the concentration of ferric ions (Fe3+) in a given water
sample by a spectrometric method using KCNS as color developing
agent.
 Determination of the Isoelectric point (pI) of glycine amino acid.
 Synthesis of transition metal complexes and characterization by using
IR and 1H-NMR. (Open ended)
 Determination of the concentration of different ions (cations and anions)
in a given water sample by colorimetry. (Open ended).
 Application of potentiometric titrations (Open ended).
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO 1 : Handle different chemicals with proper safety protocols in an advanced
Chemistry laboratory.
CO 2 : Learn and apply basic techniques used in Chemistry laboratory for
preparation, purification and identification.
CO 3 : Analyze the kinetics of 1st order reactions and estimate the rate
constant.
CO 4 : Use different instrumental techniques such as Conductometry, pH-
metry, Potentiometry and Colorimetry.
CO 5 : Analyse basic water quality parameters like hardness, dissolved
oxygen, alkalinity, chloride ferrous iron contents etc.
CO 6 : Rationalize and learn the spectroscopic and synthesis techniques in
chemistry.
Reference Materials:
1. Chemistry laboratory Instruction manual, School of Applied Sciences,
KIIT Deemed to be University
2. Vogel's Quantitative Chemical Analysis, J. Mendham, R.C. Denney J.
D. Barnes, M.J.K. Thomas, 6th Edition, Longman
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 27

3. Standard methods for examination of water and wastewater, 23rd
Edition, APHA.
Course Title Differential Equations And Linear Algebra
Course Code (Credit) MA11001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to familiarize the prospective engineers with
techniques in ordinary differential equations and linear algebra. It aims to
equip the students to tackle advanced level of mathematics and applications
that they would find useful in their disciplines.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Ordinary Differential Equations of First Order:
Introduction and formation of differential equations, Overview: Variable
separable, homogeneous, equations reducible to homogeneous form.Exact
differential equations, equations reducible to exact form, linear differential
equations, equations reducible to linear form (Bernoulli’s equation).
Applications of differential equations: Growth-Decay Problem, Newton’s Law of
Cooling, Mixing problem, Orthogonal trajectories.
UNIT II
Linear Differential Equations of second order:
Second order linear homogeneous equations with constant coefficients;
differential operators; solutions of homogeneous equations; Euler-Cauchy
equation; linear dependence and independence; Wronskian; Solutions of non-
homogeneous equations: general solution, complementary function, particular
integral; solution by variation of parameters; undetermined coefficients.
Applications of 2nd order differential equations in Electric circuit.
UNIT III
Special Functions:
Improper Integrals for one variable, some test for convergence of improper
integrals, Gamma function, Properties, Beta function, Relation between
Gamma and Beta functions. Radius of convergence of power series, Legendre
equation. Legendre polynomial. Recurrence relations and Orthogonality
property of Legendre polynomial. Bessel’s equation, Bessel’s function,
Recurrence relation.
UNIT IV
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 28

System of Linear Equations and Vector Space:
Linear system of equations; rank of matrix; consistency of linear systems;
Solution of system of linear equations: Gauss elimination, inverse of a matrix
by Gauss Jordan method, Vector Space, Sub-space, Basis and dimension,
linear dependence and independence, Linear transformation.
UNIT V
Matrix-Eigen value problems:
1. Eigen values, Eigen vectors, Eigen basis, quadratic form; Hermitian, Skew-
Hermitian forms; similar matrices; Diagonalization of matrices.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1 :Understand the concept of modelling and formulation of Differential
equation of physical problems,
CO2 :Apply different methods to solve ODE problems involving growth-decay,
cooling effects and electrical circuits etc,
CO3 : Develop an ability to solve 2ndand higher order ODEs,
CO4 : Apply the knowledge of special function in engineering problems,
CO5 :Use the essential tool of matrices and linear algebra in a
comprehensive manner, and
CO6 : Apply the knowledge of Eigen value and Eigen vector in the field of
engineering and also get the concept of complex matrices.
Textbooks:
1. Erwin Kreyszig, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Wiley INC, 10th
Edition,2011.
Reference Books:
1. B.S. Grewal, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Khanna Publishers, 44th
Edition.
2. H.K. Das, Introduction to Engineering Mathematics, S.Chand & Co Ltd,
11th Edition.
3. B.V. Ramana, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Tata McGraw-Hill
Publications 2007.
4. J. Sinha Roy and S. Padhy, A course on ordinary & partial differential
Equation, Kalyani Publication, 3rd Edition.
Course Title Transform Calculus And Numerical Analysis
Course Code (Credit) MA11002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objective:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 29

The objective of this course is to familiarize the students with the methods of
Laplace and Fourier transformation and various numerical techniques to
solve engineering problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Laplace Transforms:
Laplace Transform, Inverse Laplace Transform, Linearity, Transform of
derivatives and integrals, Unit Step function, Dirac delta function, Second
shifting theorem, Differentiation and integration of transforms, Convolution,
Solution of ODEs and integral equation by Laplace transform.
Fourier Series and Transform: Fourier series, Arbitrary periods, Even and odd
functions, Half range expansions, Fourier integral, Cosine and sine
transforms, Fourier Transform, Inverse Fourier Transform, Linearity, Fourier
Transform of derivative, Convolution.
UNIT II
Approximations & Errors:
Approximation of numbers by truncation and rounding-off, Types of errors.
Numerical solution of Nonlinear equations: Solutions by Bisection Method,
Fixed Point Iteration Method, Newton-Raphson Method, Regula-Falsi and
Secant Method, Rate of Convergence of Secant & Newton-Raphson Method.
UNIT III
Interpolation & Approximation:
Finite Differences, Operators and Relation between them. Interpolation:
Newton's forward and backward difference interpolation, Newton's divided
difference interpolation and Lagrange interpolation.
Numerical Differentiation & Integration: Numerical differentiation of first- and
second-order equations using difference table. Trapezoidal rule, Simpson's
1/3rd and 3/8th rules, Gauss-Legendre’s two-point and three -point
formulae. Error in Numerical Integration.
UNIT IV
Numerical Solution to ODE:
Taylor’s (OK?) series Method, Euler's Method, Modified Euler's Method,
Runge-Kutta Methods of order 2 and 4, Reduction of second-order ODE to
system of first-order ODEs and its solution by R-K method of order four.
Solution of System of Linear Equations, Solutions by Gauss-Seidel and
Gauss-Jacobi methods.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 30

Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1 : Apply Laplace Transform to problems in the field of science and
engineering,
CO2 : Use Fourier series and Transform as a tool to solve differential
equations,
CO3 : Estimate the error in the results obtained in the numerical methods,
CO4 : Solve nonlinear equations that arise in engineering problems and
interpolation,
CO5 : Know various numerical methods of differentiation and integration,
and
CO6 : Apply numerical solution of differential equations and systems of linear
equations.
Textbooks:
1. E Kreyszig, Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Wiley, INC, 10th
Edition.
2. Jain, Iyenger and Jain, Numerical Methods for Scientific and
Engineering Computation, New age International (P) Ltd., 6th Edition.
Reference Books:
1. B.S. Grewal, Khanna ,Higher Engineering Mathematics, Publishers, 44th
Edition.
2. B.V. Ramana, Higher Engineering Mathematics, Tata McGraw-Hill
Publications, 2007.
3. A, Thangapandi and Somasundaram, Numerical Methods, Scitech
Publishers, 2nd Edition.
Course Title Science Of Living Systems
Course Code (Credit) LS10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to enrich the basic knowledge of students in the
field of biology and use that knowledge to support the engineering and
research programs. Besides, the course also helps to learn methodology to
establish models for various biological phenomena and apply the
aforementioned models to predict/analyse the functionality of various
systems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Cellular Organization of a Living Organism:
Biology in engineering, The Living World: Biodiversity of living world,
Microorganisms, Cell as the basic unit of life, Cell theory, Structure and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 31

function of Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic cells, Cell growth and reproduction,
Homeostasis, Concept of gene, Basic structure and function of chromosomes.
UNIT II
Molecular and Biochemical Basis of an Organism:
Chemical Context of Life: Water, Carbon, Structure and Function, Types of
bonding, Bio- macromolecules (Carbohydrates, Proteins, Amino acids, Lipids
and Nucleic acids), Protein synthesis, Cell differentiation, Stem cells and their
applications.
UNIT III
Enzymes, Photosynthesis, Metabolism and Bioenergetics:
Enzymes: Introduction, structure, properties, Classification, Mechanism of
enzyme actions, Factors affecting enzyme action, Strategies utilized by
enzymes to affect catalysis. Photosynthesis: Introduction, pigments, process
of photosynthesis, Mechanism of photosynthesis (light reaction and dark
reaction). Metabolism and Bioenergetics: Anabolism and catabolism.
UNIT IV
Nervous system, Immune system and Cell Signaling:
Nervous system: Introduction, History of neuroscience, Types of glial cells,
Nerve cells - Neurons, Organization of the nervous system, Action potential,
Diseases of the nervous system, Computer-based Neural Networks. Immune
system: Introduction, Innate Immunity, Adaptive or acquired immunity,
Diseases of the immune system, Immune engineering. Cell signaling: General
principles of cell signaling.
UNIT V
Molecular Machines, Biosensor and Bioremediation:
Molecular Machines: Introduction, Molecular motors and Machines, F0F1-
ATP synthase motors, Cytoskeleton associated motors. Biosensors: Concept of
biosensor, Working principle, Types of biosensors, Glucose biosensors, Bio-
detectors: DNA detection biosensor, Detection of pollutants, Biosensor in food
industry. Bioremediation: Introduction, Role of microorganisms, Factors
determining bioremediation, Types – in situ/ex situ, Advantages and
disadvantages, Biofuel.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Learn the typical characteristics that distinguish life forms and analyze
life process at cellular level,
CO2 :Apply concepts on structure and function of simple biomolecules in life
processes
CO3 : Understand different process involved in life and analyse their effects,
CO4 : Analyse different biological phenomena and relate them to engineering
applications,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 32

CO5 :Comprehend different physiological functions and relate them to
computer-based techniques, and
CO6 : Implement concepts of biology and their relevance to engineering and
technology.
Textbooks:
1. S. Thyagarajan, N. Selvamurugan, M.P Rajesh, R.A Nazeer, Richard W.
Thilagarajan, S. Bharathi and M.K. Jaganathan, Biology for Engineers,
McGraw Hill Education (India),7th Edition, 2022.
Reference Books:
1. P. H. Raven and G.B. Johnson. Biology (Indian Edition), Tata McGraw
Hill Education Publication,13th Edition, 2023.
2. E D. Enger, Feederick C, Ross and David B. Bailey. Concepts of
Biology,Tata McGraw-Hill Publication, 14th Edition, 2011.
3. Neil A. Campbell and Jane B. Recee, Biology, Pearson Education, 8th
Edition , December 2007.
4. Cecie Starr, Biology Concepts and Application, Thomson Books, 6th
Edition, January 2006.
Course Title English
Course Code (Credit) HS10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to develop and improve, in the students, the
skills of active listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English, through
lecture classes and practice sessions, and improve their professional
communication abilities. The course will help the students to enhance their
critical thinking and situational communicative skills through the study of
contemporary social issues depicted in literature.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Professional Communication:
Process of Communication: Definition, Explanation & Diagram, Difference
Between General and Technical Communication; Methods of Communication
(Verbal & Non-Verbal); Non-Verbal Communication (Kinesics, Proxemics,
Chronemics, Oculesics, Olfactics, Gustorics, Haptics, and Iconics);
Paralanguage; Flow of Communication (Formal & Informal); Levels of
Communication; and Barriers of Communication (Intrapersonal,
Interpersonal, and Organizational).
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 33

UNIT II
Basics of Grammar and Writing Skills:
Error Detection in Sentences: Articles, Prepositions, Tense, Subject-Verb
Agreement, Active and Passive Voice; Use of Punctuation: Full Stop, Comma,
Colon, Semi-colon, Single & Double Inverted Commas, Exclamation &
Interrogation Marks, Hyphens and Dashes, and Ampersand;
Paragraph Writing – Components; Writing Bias-free English; Business Letters:
Enquiry, Claim/Complaint, and Order; Technical Reports: Formats, Style &
Referencing; and Reading Techniques: Skimming, Scanning, Intensive &
Extensive Reading.
UNIT III
Basic Sounds of English:
Hearing & Listening: Types of Listening – Appreciative, Empathetic, Critical,
Comprehensive, Superficial, Differences between Listening & Hearing;
Introduction to Basic Sounds of IPA: Symbols of IPA, Types of Vowels &
Consonants; and Problem Sounds & Mother Tongue Influence: Concept of MTI
with Examples.
UNIT IV
English Literature:
Short Story – O. Henry: ‘Gift of the Magi;’Short Story – Ismat Chughtai:
‘Sacred Duty;’; Poem – Robert Frost: ‘Stopping by Woods on a Snowy
Evening;’Poem – Tennessee Williams: ‘We Have Not Long to Love;’ and Drama:
William Shakespeare: Merchant of Venice.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Apply verbal and non-verbal modes of communication effectively in
practical Situations,
CO2 : Retain a grammatically correct and logical flow while drafting reports
and other technical pieces of writing,
CO3 : Develop competence in reading and comprehension,
CO4 : Implement active listening responses in professional practice,
CO5 : Utilize neutral accent in English pronunciation successfully, and
CO6 : Understand situational and conversational English used for different
purposes and contents.
Textbooks:
1. M. Ashraf Rizvi, Effective Technical Communication, Tata McGraw Hill
Education Publication, 2005.
Reference Books:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 34

1. Sidney Greenbaum. The Oxford Grammar (English). Oxford University
Press, 1st Edition. 2005.
2. S Verma,Technical Communication for Engineers, Vikas Publishing
House,2015.
3. R Dove,The Penguin Anthology of 20th Century American Poetry,Penguin
Books. 2013.
4. The Merchant of Venice (The New Cambridge Shakespeare). Mahood &
Lockwood eds. CUP. 2018.
Course Title Communication Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) HS18001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
This subject is designed to enrich the basic knowledge of engineering students
in the field of communication and to support the engineering and research
programs.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Reading Comprehension:
Understanding meaning and sequence of ideas in written language
Activity based on matching, multiple choice questions, open close,
appropriate headings.
UNIT II
Time & Tense + Subject-Verb Agreement:
Applying correct grammar in everyday writings.
UNIT III
Vocabulary Building (Mind Mapping/Phrasal Verbs):
Developing vocabulary through associating key ideas, and learning idioms
and phrases.
UNIT IV
Listening Comprehension:
Interpreting meaning and syntax in spoken language.
UNIT V
E-mail Writing:
Formulating appropriate e-mails with relevant salutation, language &
conclusion
UNIT VI
Resume Writing/ Video Resume
Creating suitable, job-oriented resume
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 35

UNIT V
Thematic Speaking:
Practising and implementing theme-based individual speaking skills.
UNIT VI
PowerPoint Presentation
Developing skills to design and deliver engaging, informative and impactful
presentations
UNIT VII
Class Participation.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Use English grammar correctly and unambiguously in technical
writing,
CO2 : Apply verbal and non-verbal modes of communication effectively in
practical situations,
CO3 : Have a basic understanding of the communication process and to know
the practical implementations in the workplace,
CO4 : Retain a logical flow while drafting reports and other technical pieces of
writing,
CO5 : Develop competence in reading and comprehension, and
CO6: Be familiar with English pronunciation and use neutral accent
successfully.
Course Title Basic Electronics
Course Code (Credit) EC10001(L- T- P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The subject is designed to familiarize students of all branches to the all-
pervasive field of Electronics, enable them to carry out research in
interdisciplinary fields involving semiconductor devices, and utilize the
knowledge in solving practical problems in real life in today’s age of
electronics.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Semiconductors, Diodes and Transistors:
Properties of semiconductor materials, Applications of semiconductors as p-n
junction diode, Diode characteristics and breakdown mechanisms, Half-wave
and full-wave rectifiers with filters, Zener diode, Transistor constructions,
operations and their characteristics. Transistor biasing, amplifiers, and load
line analysis, Concepts of JFET and MOSFET.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 36

UNIT II
Operational Amplifier (Op-amp) and applications:
Introduction to Op-amp and its Characteristics. Application of Op-Amp as
Inverting amplifier, Non-inverting Amplifier, Summing, Difference amplifier
and comparator
UNIT III
Introduction to Digital Electronics:
Different number systems and its conversions, Logic gates and truth tables of
OR, AND, NAND, EX-OR. Combinational circuit and Sequential circuit.
UNIT IV
Miscellaneous Electronic Devices
SCR, Opto-electronic devices and fiber techniques, Introduction and
description of sensor performance, Fundamentals of analog communication
techniques (AM and FM).
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the properties of semiconductor and current conduction
mechanism,
CO2 : Comprehend the working of P-N junction diodes; identify different diode
circuits and analyze them,
CO3 : Understand the working of different types of transistors,
CO4 : Know about OP-AMP and its applications,
CO5 : Analyze the working of op-amp using either inverting or non-inverting
configurations, timing circuit, regulated power supply ICs, and their
applications, and
CO6 : Realize the importance of various analog and digital electronic systems
and electronic devices.
Textbooks:
1. J Millman, Christos C. Halkias & C D. Parikh, Integrated Electronics:
Analog and digital circuits and Systems , 9th Edition, 2021.
Reference Book
1. R. L. Boylestad & L. Nashelsky, Electronic Devices & Circuits,PHI,7th
Edition,2021
2. D. A. Bell. Electronic Devices and Circuits.(Oxford )5th Edition,2021.
3. D. Chattopadhyay and P. C. Rakshit. Fundamentals & Applications
,New Age International, 15th Edition 2021.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 37

Course Title Workshop
Course Code (Credit) ME18001(L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
This workshop practice is designed to impart students the basic knowledge on
manufacturing or developing a given object irrespective of their branch of
engineering. While furnishing the given object, students will familiar with
various mechanical operations and the respective tools or machines. This
course involves four different sections namely Fitting, Welding, Turning and
Sheet metal which cover both conventional and advanced tools to provide
students the updated manufacturing experience. Students are also advised
with various safety precautions to be followed during a specific manufacturing
practice. At the end, students will also gain knowledge on different advanced
machines such as CNC machine tools and 3D printing.
Course Contents:
 Turning operations
 Sheet metal operations
 Fitting
 Welding
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1 : Practice different operations related to fitting shop.
CO2 : Use different welding tools to prepare a given type of joint.
CO3 : Demonstrate various turning operations including taper turning and
knurling using a conventional lathemachine.
CO4 : Design a tray and prepare it using sheet metal equipment involving
soldering.
CO5 : Appraise different operations using a CNC machines.
CO6 : Interpret different advanced machines such as 3D printing/additive
manufacturing.
Course Title Engineering Drawing & Graphics
Course Code (Credit) CE18001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to provide students with knowledge and
abilities to design a 3D object on 2D paper by hand sketching method and by
means of computer aided drafting software.
Course Contents:
 Introduction to Engineering graphics
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 38

 Lettering
 Projection of points & lines
 Line inclined to both the planes
 Projection of planes
 Introduction to Computer Aided Drafting
 Projection of solids
 Section of solids
 Development of surface
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Use common drafting tools properly.
CO2 : Select, construct and interpret appropriate drawing scale as per the
situation.
CO3 : Draw orthographic projections of points, lines and planes.
CO4 : Draw orthographic projection of solids like cylinders, cones, prisms
and pyramids,
CO5 : Develop the section of solids for practical situations, and
CO6 : Communicate ideas effectively using Computer Aided Drafting.
Textbook:
1. K. Venugopal,Engineering Drawing + AutoCAD New Age Publishers,
1st Edition, 2011.
Reference Book
1. S. N. Lal Engineering Drawing with an Introduction to AutoCAD,
Cengage India Private Limited, 1st Edition, 2017.
Course Title PROGRAMMING LABORATORY
Course Code (Credit) CS13001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-2-4-4)
Course Objective:
The course aims to provide exposure to problem-solving through
programming. It aims to train the student to the basic concepts of the C-
programming language. This course involves lab component which is designed
to give the student hands-on experience with the concepts.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Computer and Programming:
Basic concepts of computer organization, CPU, Memory. I/O devices, Number
Systems , Evolution of programming languages, structured programming,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 39

Compilation process, source code, object code, executable code, Operating
systems, interpreters, linkers, loaders, Algorithms, flow charts, pseudo-code.
Program Constructs:
Character set, Identifiers, Keywords, Data Types, Constant and Variables,
Operators: Precedence and associativity, Expressions, Statements, Input and
Output functions, Control structures: Branching & Looping.
UNIT II
Arrays and Strings:
One dimensional Array, Multidimensional Array and their applications, String
Manipulation.
UNIT III
Functions:
Library and User defined functions, Formal and Actual parameters, function
prototypes, Parameter passing: Call
By-value, Call-by-reference, Recursion, Storage Classes.
UNIT IV
Pointers:
Pointer variable, Pointer Arithmetic, passing parameters by reference, pointer
to pointer, pointers to functions,
Dynamic memory allocation.
UNIT V
Structures, Unions:
Structures, Unions, pointer to structure & pointer to union, linked list.
UNIT VI
File Handling:
Declaration of file pointer, opening and closing files, Working with text and
binary files. Command line arguments, bit wise operators, enumerated data
types, type casting, macros, Preprocessor directives.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Have fundamental knowledge of computers hardware and number
systems with commands in Linux,
CO2 : Write, compile and debug programs in C language.
CO3 : Design programs involving decision structures, loops, and functions.
CO4 : Construct arrays to store, manipulate, search and display data.
CO5 : Apply the dynamics of memory by the use of pointers.
CO6 : Use different data structures and create/update basic data files.
Text books:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 40

T1: Programming in ANSI C (8th Edition) by E. Balagurusamy
Reference books:
R1: The C Programming Language by Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie
(Second Edition)
List of Experiments:
Sr Details
1 Write All Linux commands in the LAB report
2 Practice and write programs on simple input and output operations
3 Practice and write programs on Operators and Expressions
4 Practice and write programs on branching statements
5 Practice and write programs on looping (control) statements
6 Practice and write programs on Arrays
7 Practice and write programs on Character Arrays
8 Practice and write programs on Functions
9 Practice and write programs on Pointers
10 Practice and write programs on Structures
11 Practice simple programs on file handling
SCIENCE ELECTIVE
Course Title Nanoscience
Course Code (Credit) CH10005 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
This course is designed to educate, inspire, and motivate young students
about nanoscience, nanotechnology, and their applications. The course
provides information on the latest innovations in this field to get insights into
the nanomaterials synthesis/fabrication and applications that can be
achieved at a nanoscale.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 41

Concept and Classifications based on dimensions and compositions,
Significance of nanosize: Surface area to volume changes; Properties changing
with size (reactivity, melting point, catalytic, electrical, optical), Nanoscience
in nature, and Quantum dots as data storage.
UNIT II
Synthesis of nanomaterials:
Top-down synthesis (Mechanical method-ball milling, Photolithography, Laser
ablation, sputtering), Bottom up (pyrolysis, sol-gel, CVD, self-assembly),
Green synthesis (metallic nanoparticles, metal oxides), Biosynthesis.
UNIT III
Characterization:
XRD-X-ray generation, Working principle (Bragg’s law), Peak broadening in
nanomaterials (Scherrer formula), Electron microscopy (SEM, TEM)—high
energy electron generation, electron optics, Scanning Electron Microscopy
(SEM)—secondary, back scattered, EDX, Transmission Electron Microscopy
(TEM)—bright field imaging, dark field imaging, and Selected area diffraction
pattern.
UNIT IV
Applications:
Cosmetics—ZnO, SiO , TiO Nanoparticles in cosmetics, SiO TiO in
2 2 2 2
toothpaste, silver, gold, copper nanoparticles in skin care product; Medical
Fields—MRI, CT scan contrast enhancement agent, Drug and gene delivery
system, Magnetic hyperthermia treatment; Agriculture—Nano-pesticides,
herbicides, and fungicides, Food packaging; Aerospace and Aviation
Industries—Carbon nanotubes (CNT)nanocomposites, Metal Nanoparticle-
Polymer composites, SiC Nanoparticle reinforced alumina (high temperature
strength, creep resistance); and Nanomaterials for Environmental
Remediation—Degradation/removal of pollutants.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Learn fundamental aspects of nanoscience,
CO2 : Classify different types of nanomaterials based on their dimension and
composition
CO3 : Understand different synthesis techniques to grow nanomaterials,
CO4 : Analyse nanomaterials using different characterisation techniques,
CO5 : Apply the acquired knowledge to design new materials, and
CO6 : Evaluate the importance of nanoscience in engineering applications.
Textbooks:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 42

1. B S Murty, P Shankar, Baldev Raj, B B Rath and James
Murday,Textbooks: of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 1st Edition,
2012, ISBN-13:‎ 978-8173717383.
Reference Books:
1. Luisa Filipponi and Duncan Sutherland., Nanotechnologies: Principles,
Applications, Implications and Hands-on Activities, Edited by the
European Commission Directorate-General for Research and Innovation
Industrial technologies (NMP) program, 2012, ISBN: 978-92-79-21437-
0.
2. Charles P. Poole Jr., Frank J. Owens., Introduction to Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology, An Indian Adaptation, 3rd Edition, 2020, ISBN-13:
‎978-9354240201.
3. P. I. Varghese, T. Pradeep. A Textbooks: of Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology, Tata McGraw Hill Education, 2017, ISBN:
9781259007323.
Course Title Smart Materials
Course Code (Credit) PH10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
This course is designed with the objective of enabling engineering students to
get a flavour of advances in materials science. The knowledge of smart
materials learnt by the students in the course will let them to realize the
usefulness of various new-age materials for technological advances and allow
them to explore further in their higher semesters. This course will help them
bridge the gap between traditional Textbooks: science put into physics,
chemistry, etc. and the state-of-the-art science of materials.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Smart Materials:
common smart materials and associated stimulus-response, Classification:
active and passive, Piezoelectric, Shape-memory alloys, Photo-responsive
polymers, Electroactive polymers, Magnetostriction and Electro-strictriction,
Thermo-responsive polymers, Dielectric elastomers, Halochromic,
Thermoelectric materials; Application areas of smart materials: Space, health
care and biomedical sectors.
UNIT II
Piezoelectric Materials: Piezoelectric Effect:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 43

Direct and Converse, Piezoelectric coefficients, Piezoceramics, Piezopolymers,
Piezoelectric Materials as Sensors, Actuators etc.
UNIT III
Shape-memory Alloys:
Shape memory alloys (SMAs) and properties, Phase change in SMAs, Shape
memory effect: One-way and two-way, binary, and ternary alloy systems,
Applications.
UNIT-IV
Chromic Materials:
Photochromic, Thermochromic, Electrochromic, Magneto-chromic and Piezo-
chromic Materials.
UNIT V
Multiferroic Materials:
Multiferroics definitions, Ferroic phases, Magnetoelectric coupling; Type-I and
Type-II multiferroics, Mechanism: Charge ordering, lone pair, geometric effect,
and spin driven mechanism; Multiferroic materials, Applications.
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Learn about smart materials, their properties and applications,
CO2 : Understand types of smart material based on their electrical and
magnetic properties,
CO3 : Characterize piezoelectric, ferroelectric and multiferroic materials,
CO4 : Identify novel functions of smart materials,
CO5 : Apply the acquired knowledge of smart materials in different
applications, and
CO6 : Evaluate the importance of smart materials in day-to-day life.
Textbooks:
1. B. K. Pandey and S. Chaturvedi, Engineering Physics, Cengage
Publication, New Delhi, 2nd Edition 2022, ISBN-13: 978-81-953536-7-5.
Reference Books:
1. Mohsen Shahinpoor, Fundamentals of Smart Materials, 2020, Royal
Society of Chemistry, ISBN: 9781782626459.
2. M. Schwartz, Smart Materials, 1st Edition, 2008, CRC Press, ISBN
9781420043723.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 44

Course Title Molecular Diagnostics
Course Code (Credit) LS10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to understand methods and techniques that are
used to study biological processes in living beings. They include experimental
and methodological approaches, protocols and tools for biological research.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Bimolecular:
Overview of DNA, RNA, and Proteins, Chromosomal structure & mutations,
DNA polymorphisms; and Gene and Genetic errors.
UNIT II
Molecular Basis of Diseases:
Infectious, non-infectious; Diagnosis- traditional, modern tools, Concepts of
molecular diagnostics.
UNIT III
Molecular Diagnosis and Techniques:
DNA fingerprinting, Auto-antibody fingerprinting, Southern blotting, PCR,
Real-time PCR and variations; Nucleic
acid sequencing: New generations of automated sequencers, CRISPR
technology and its use in diagnostics and gene editing.
UNIT IV
Protein Diagnostics Techniques
Antigen-antibody reactions, ELISA, variations of ELISA; Western blotting.
UNIT V:
Point-of-Care Devices
Biosensors and nano-biosensors for disease and metabollites detection.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Learn the basics of Genes, Chromosomes, DNA, RNA and proteins
along with their Aberrations,
CO2 : Understand the principles and working mechanisms of various
instruments used in the study of biological processes in living things,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 45

CO3 : Apply the knowledge of different diagnostics methods for quantitative
estimation of xenobiotics (drugs and their metabolites) and biotics
(proteins, DNA, metabolites) in biological systems,
CO4 : Analyze the recent developed techniques which are required for gene
editing and their Applications,
CO5 : Evaluate the role of various bio-analytical techniques in environmental
studies, biomedical sciences, life sciences, molecular biology, and
biotechnological research, and
CO6 : Implement the knowledge of diagnostics in designing point-of-care
instruments for different diseases.
Textbooks:
1. M K. Campbell, S O. Farrell, O M. McDougal, AE Biochemistry, Cengage
Publisher,9th Edition 2017, ISBN-13: 9789814846448.
Reference Books:
1. N Rifai, Andrea Rita Horvath and Carl T. Wittwer, Principles and
Applications of Molecular Diagnostics,2018, Elsevier Publisher, 1st
Edition, 2018.
2. K G Ramawat & Shaily Goyal, Molecular Biology and Biotechnology,
ISBN9788121935128 Publisher S Chand & Co., 2nd Edition, 2010.
3. H Lodish, Arnold Ber, Molecular Cell Biology, WH Freeman Publisher,
8th Edition, 2016, ISBN-10 9781464187445.
Course Title Science Of Public Health
Course Code (Credit) PE10002 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to orient the students to core scientific
disciplines in public health practice.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Scientific Approaches to Public Health:
Health and public health concepts, Science and practice of applied public
health: Scientific disciplines as part of interdisciplinary public health,
Examples of use of behavioral model in changing the community perception of
public health interventions
UNIT II
Social and Behavioral Sciences in Public Health:
Social and behavioral determinants of health and disease, WHO and CDC
models of social determinants of health, Disease and social status, Disease
and poverty, Social interventions for good health.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 46

Health behavior change models for public health interventions, Health Belief
Model, Transtheoretical Model. The theory of planned behavior, Health
communication to improve the outcome of public health interventions
UNIT III
Environment Health Sciences in Public Health:
Environment & climate change, Ecosystem, Lifestyle and dietary effects on
health, food safety and sanitation, Environmental pollution, waste disposal
and treatment.
UNIT IV
Epidemiology and Data Science in Public Health:
Epidemiology and achievements in public health, Measurements in
Epidemiology—Incidence and prevalence, Causation and association, and
Measures of association.
Outline of study designs (including cross-sectional study design, case-control
study design, cohort study design and randomized control trials); Introduction
to confounding and bias; Screening tests- validity and reliability methods.
UNIT V
Management and Economic Sciences in Public Health:
Systems approach (input, process and outcome) in public health. Health
management information system, Horizontal and vertical integration of public
health interventions, Public-Private mix.
Understanding community, Community health related needs assessment,
Community orientation and Community mobilization, Introduction to digital
health.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand and enlist the scientific approaches in public health,
CO2 : Understand and apply the epidemiologic and biostatistical science in
evidence synthesis,
CO3 : Understand and apply the environmental health science in public
health practice,
CO4 : Understand and apply the social and behavioral science in public
health practice,
CO5 : Understand and apply the health economic and health management
principles in setting priority for resource allocation, and
CO6 : Understand and apply the health economic and health management
principles in health system optimization.
Textbooks:
1. R Detal, Oxford Textbooks: of Global Public Health, Oxford, 7th Edition,
2021.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 47

2. K Parks, Textbooks: of Preventive and Social Medicine, M/S
Banarsidas Bhanot Publishers, . 26th Edition, 2021.
Reference Books:
1. Robert H. Friis,. Essentials of Environmental Health, Jones & Bartlett
Publishers, 2018
2. Warrier S,. Information and Communication Technologies in Public
Health A Sociological Study,CBS Publishers, 2020.
3. Baker JJ. Baker RW, Dworkin NR, Health Care Finance: Basic
Tools for Non-financial Managers., Jones and Bartlett Publishers,
Inc, 5th edition. 2017.
4. Ross TK, Practical Budgeting For Health Care: A Concise Guide,
Jones and Bartlett Publishers, Inc, 2020.
Course Objective
The objective of this course is to orient the students to core scientific
disciplines in public health practice.
Course Title Optimization Techniques
Course Code (Credit) MA10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
To familiarise the students with a few rudimentary and popular optimization
techniques to enable them to solve resource-constrained real world problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Linear Programming:
Mathematical foundations and basic definitions, Linear optimization:
Formulation and graphical solution of linear programming problems, Simplex
method, Duality.
UNIT II
Transportation:
General structure of a transportation problem, Finding initial basic feasible
solution by North-West corner rule, Least-Cost method and Vogel’s
Approximation Method, and Testing for optimality.
UNIT III
Assignment Problem:
Hungarian assignment method, Unbalanced assignment problems,
Restrictions in assignment, Travelling Salesman model.
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Know the concept of Linear programming problem (LPP) and will able
to formulate linear programming problem,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 48

CO2 : Understand the basic terminology and concepts of solving LPP,
CO3 : Solve LPP by simplex method,
CO4 : Know the concept of duality in Optimization technique,
CO5 : Apply optimization technique to solve transportation problem, and
CO6 : Solve assignment problem.
Textbooks:
1. H.A. Taha, Operation Research, An Introduction, Pearson Education,
10th Edition.
Reference Books:
1. K. Gupta, Kanti Swarup, and Man Mohan .,Operations Research, P.,
S.Chand &Co, 2004.
2. N. S. Kambo, Mathematical Programming Techniques.,East West Press,
1997.
3. R. Fletcher., Practical Methods of Optimization, 2nd Ed., John Wiley,
1987.
4. Hanif D, Sherali, M. S. Bazarra. & J.J. Jarvis, Linear Programming and
Network Flows, Wiley Publication. 2nd Edition.
ENGINERING ELECTIVE I
Course Title Basic Civil Engineering
Course Code (Credit) CE10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The course is designed to provide an overview of different aspects of civil
engineering profession, namely, surveying, materials, structural, and
geotechnical engineering, hydraulics and water resources, environmental
engineering, and transportation engineering and their roles in the societal
development.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Role of civil engineers in designing, building, and maintaining infrastructure
and improving quality of life, Specializations in the civil engineering and their
specific roles.
UNIT II
Surveying:
Plans, maps, scales, divisions of surveying, classification of surveying,
leveling, and advanced methods of surveying.
UNIT III
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 49

Construction Materials & Structural Engineering:
Different construction materials and their uses, structural analysis and
design philosophy.
UNIT IV
Geotechnical Engineering:
Overview on origin of soil, engineering properties and their classification; Soil
exploration; Foundations: Their importance and purpose; Factors to consider
in foundation design and stability of slopes; and Improving site soils for
foundation use.
UNIT V
Hydraulics & Water Resources Engineering:
Overview of fluid properties, open channel flow, surface and groundwater
hydrology, and irrigation infrastructures.
UNIT VI
Environmental Engineering:
Types of waste water, Principles of wastewater management, Types of solid
waste, and Principles of solid waste management.
UNIT VII
Transportation Engineering:
Classification of highways, Typical construction methods of roads, traffic
surveys and their applications in traffic planning, Railways, Ports and
Harbours
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the importance and practical applications of different
types of surveying,
CO2 : Learn about the different construction materials and understand the
philosophy of structural analysis and design,
CO3 : Understand engineering behaviour of soil and types of foundations,
CO4 :Understand different hydraulics, hydrological and water resources
engineering applications,
CO5 :Learn about the management strategies of wastewater and solid waste,
and
CO6 : Understand the basics of different types of highways, railways, ports
and harbours.
Textbooks:
1. Er. Shrikrishna A. Dhale and Er. Kiran M. Tajne, Basics of Civil
Engineering, S. Chand & Co., 1st Edition, 2014.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 50

Reference Books:
1. S. S. Bhavikati, “Basic Civil Engineering” by New Age International
Publisher, 1st Edition, 2021.
2. M. S. Palanichamy “Basic Civil Engineering”, Tata McGraw-Hill
Publication.
Course Title Basic Mechanical Engineering
Course Code (Credit) ME10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The course is designed to give an overview of the fundamental aspects of
mechanical engineering so that a student pursuing any branch of engineering
will realize the possibilities that the branch of mechanical engineering offers.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Concepts of Thermodynamics:
Systems, properties, state, and cycle, Thermodynamic equilibrium and quasi-
static process, First law of thermodynamics for closed system, First law of
thermodynamics for open/flow systems, Second law of thermodynamics,
Kelvin Plank statement, Clausius statement, and Basic concept of entropy
UNIT II
Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machines:
Introduction to fluids, Properties of fluids, Pressure variation with depth,
Bernoulli’s equation and its applications, and Introduction to hydraulic
turbines and pumps.
UNIT III
Mechanics of Materials:
Stress, Strain, Stress-Strain diagrams for ductile and brittle materials, Elastic
constants, Hooks Law, Factor of Safety, One-dDimensional loading of
members of varying vross sections.
UNIT IV
Power Transmission:
Gear, Belt, and Chain Drives, Shaft under varying loading conditions,
Introduction to robots, Applications of robotics, Basic robot motions, Sensors
and Actuators
UNIT V
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 51

Manufacturing Processes:
Introduction to engineering materials, Types and classification of materials,
Properties of materials, Introduction to casting, forming, forging, rolling,
extrusion and welding, Introduction to machine tools, NC, CNC, and 3-D
Printing.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the basic principles of thermodynamics,
CO2 : Develop an understanding of fluid machines like turbine and pump,
CO3 : Determine stress and strains in a component subject to a load,
CO4 : Understand the working and design aspect of power drives,
CO5 : Recognize appropriate material for a particular engineering
application, and
CO6 : Understand the fundamentals of manufacturing processes.
Textbooks:
1. P Kumar, Basic mechanical Engineering, Pearson Education, 2nd
Edition, 2018
Reference Books:
1. J K Kittur and G D Gokak, Elements of Mechanical Engineering
Willey, 1st Edition, 2015.
2. B Agrawal, C M Agrawal ,Basic Mechanical Engineering, Willey, 1st
Edition, 2011.
Course Title Basic Electrical Engineering
Course Code (Credit) EE10002 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective
The course is designed to provide to the students a comprehensive overview of
the basics of the electrical engineering discipline. In particular, the course
includes fundamental aspects of DC, AC and magnetic circuit analysis,
working principles and applications of machines, and safety measures used in
various electrical apparatus and appliances.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
D. C. Circuits:
Kirchhoff’s law, Source transformation, Star-delta transformation and
equivalent resistance of the circuits, Mesh and Nodal analysis, Superposition
theorem.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 52

UNIT II
A.C. Circuits:
Peak, average, R.M.S. values of sinusoidal quantities, Peak factor, Form
factor, Phase difference, Phasor representation, AC through R, L, C, AC
Series Circuit (RL, RC, RLC), Three-phase AC circuits: Voltage, current and
power in star and delta connections.
UNIT III
Electromagnetic Circuits:
Magnetizing Force, Reluctance, Permeance, Magnetic field, Magnetic
permeability, Analogy between Electric Circuits and Magnetic Circuits. Series
magnetic circuit, BH curve.
UNIT IV
Scope and Safety Measures:
Electrical Energy Scenario in India, Application of Transformer, Three-phase
and single-phase induction Motors, Power ratings of air conditioners, PCs,
laptops, printers, refrigerator, washing machine, different lamps, electricity
tariff, calculation of electricity bill for domestic consumer.
UNIT V
Personal Safety Measures:
Electric Shock, Earthing and its types, Safety Precautions to avoid shock.
UNIT VI
Equipment Safety Measures:
Working principles of fuse and miniature circuit breaker (MCB), Residual
Current Circuit Breaker (RCCB).
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Analyze the concept of DC circuit,
CO2 : Understand the concepts of AC circuits,
CO3 : Analyze the three phase circuit,
CO4 : Interpret the behavior of magnetic circuits,
CO5 : Remember the principles and operation of electrical machines, and
CO6 : Know the concepts of electrical safety and protection systems.
Textbooks:
1. V K Mehta, Rohit Mehta, Principles of Electrical Engineering and
Electronics S Chand and Company, New Delhi ,Revised Edition 2013.
2. D.C. Kulshreshtha, Basic Electrical Engineering Tata Mcgraw publication,
1st Edition 2011.
3. T.K. Nagasarkar and M.S. Sukhija Basic Electrical Engineering, Oxford
University press, 3rd Edition 2017.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 53

Reference Book:
1. Sanjeev Sharma, Basics Electrical Engineering I.K.International, New
Delhi ,Third Reprint 2010.
ENGINERING ELECTIVE II
Course Title Elements Of Machine Learning
Course Code (Credit) EE10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Today, we have access to massive data which get generated through
information and computer technology in our connected world. Most of these
data lie unused and often overwhelm us due to their size and variety. The
objective of this course is to introduce to the students to the field of learning
from data, discovering data patterns, converting them into knowledge, and
applying it to solve real-world problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Importance and Applications of Machine Learning, Supervised, Unsupervised,
Reinforcement Learning and Evolutionary Learning.
UNIT II
Data Analysis:
Measurement Scales and Data Types; Visualization, Pre-processing and
Transformation of Data; Dimensionality Reduction; and Data (Dis)Similarity.
UNIT III
Unsupervised Learning:
K-means and Density-based, Clustering Methods.
UNIT IV
Supervised Learning:
K-Nearest Neighbour, Decision Tree by Qualitative and
Quantitative(information Gain method); Evaluation by Confusion Matrix of
Supervised Learning Methods.
UNIT V
Learning with Neural Networks:
Perceptron, Multi-layer Perceptron and, Error Backpropagation Learning.
Course Outcomes:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 54

Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Demonstrate fundamentals of machine learning,
CO2 : Identify data types, apply suitable processing and visualize using
suitable methods,
CO3 : Describe Unsupervised Learning and apply clustering techniques,
CO4 : Describe Supervised Learning and apply classification techniques,
CO5 : Demonstrate perceptron and Multi-layer Perceptron models, and
CO6 :Apply machine learning techniques for real world requirement.
Textbooks:
1. Gopal, M., Applied Machine Learning, McGraw Hill Education, 2018
2. Pradhan, M. and U. D. Kumar,Machine Learning Using Python,Wiley
India Pvt.Ltd, 2019.
Reference Books:
1. Alpaydin, E., Introduction to Machine Learning, 3rd Edition, The MIT
Press, 2014.
2. Bishop. C M, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer,
2006.
3. Jain, V. K., Big Data Science Analytics and Machine Learning, Khanna
Publishers, 2021
4. Mitchell, T. M.,Machine Learning, McGraw Hill, 1997.
5. Müller, A. C.,Introduction to Machine Learning with Python, O'Reilly
Media, Inc, 2016
6. Raschka, S. and V. Mirjalili, Python Machine Learning, 3rd Edition,
Packt Publishing, 2019.
7. Shalev-Shwartz, S. and S. Ben-David ,Understanding Machine
Learning: From Theory to Algorithms, Cambridge University Press,
2014.
Course Title Engineering Mechanics
Course Code (Credit) ME10001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Engineering Mechanics is a specialized need-based extension of Applied
Physics and uses the principles of Statics and Dynamics. The objective of this
course is to build the foundational knowledge of the students which is
required for the design of mechanical systems. In particular, the course will
cover aspects of analysis of rigid body, frame and machine under the action of
force system, and analysis of free body diagram of a system whether at rest or
in motion
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Concurrent Forces in a Plane:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 55

Introduction to Engineering Mechanics, Free-body diagrams, Composition and
resolution of forces, Methods of moments. Friction: Concept of friction, Wedge
friction.
UNIT II
Force Analysis of Plane Trusses:
Methods of joints, Method of Sections,Centroid: Parallel forces in a plane,
Centroid of plane figures, Theorem of Pappus, and Centroid of composite
plane figures.
UNIT III
Moment of Inertia:
Moment of Inertia of plane figures, Parallel axis theorem, Perpendicular axis
theorem, and Moment of Intertia of composite figures.
UNIT IV
Principle of Virtual Work:
Equilibrium of Ideal Systems, Virtual work.
UNIT V
Dynamics of Particles:
Differential equations of rectilinear motion, Free vibration, D’Alembert’s
Principle, Momentum and Impulse, Work & Energy, Conservation of energy,
Impact.
UNIT VI
Curvilinear Motion:
Normal and tangential acceleration, Motion of a projectile, Work and Energy
in curvilinear motion.
UNIT VII
Rotation of a Rigid Body:
Kinematics of rotation, Rotation under the action of a constant moment.
Course outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Draw complete and correct free-body diagrams and write the
appropriate equations from the free-body diagram,
CO2 : Use scalar analytical techniques for analyzing forces and moments in
mechanical systems,
CO3 : Analyze forces in statically determinate structures such as trusses,
frames and problems related to friction,
CO4 : Determine the centroid and second moment of area,
CO5 : Apply fundamental concepts of kinematics and kinetics of particles to
the analysis of simple and practical problems, and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 56

CO6 : Solve real life problems by using mathematics, physical laws and
theorems.
Textbooks:
1. 1.S Timoshenko, D. H Young & J.V. Rao, Engineering Mechanics, Tata
McGraw-Hill Publication 5th Edition, 2017.
Reference Books:
1. IH Shames .,Engineering Mechanics (Statics and Dynamics) , Prentice
Hall, 4th Edition, 2005.
2. S.S. Bhavikatti, Engineering Mechanics –New Age International,8th
Edition, 2021.
3. S. Rajasekaran and G. Sankarasubramanian Engineering Mechanics
(Statics and Dynamics),Vikas publishing House, 3rd Edition, 2017
Course Title Biomedical Engineering
Course Code (Credit) EC10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Biomedical Engineering is a multidisciplinary field that combines knowledge
available in a wide range of disciplines such as engineering, medicine, and
societal science. The course focuses on innovating newer equipment and
technologies to improve human health and enhance health care facilities in a
holistic manner.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction and Overview:
Introduction to biomedical engineering, Applications of biomedical
engineering.
UNIT II
The Human Body:
cCll-structure and function, Tissue & organs, Bio-potentials, Action potential,
Major human systems (musculoskeletal, circulatory, nervous, and respiratory
system)
UNIT II
Bio-instrumentation:
Instruments in medical practice, Man-instrumentation system, Basic
components, Linear network analysis, Bioelectric amplifier (OpAmp, isolation
amplifier, instrumentation amplifier), Bio-instrumentation design, and
Intelligent medical instrumentation.
UNIT III
Biomedical Electrodes and Sensors:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 57

Ssignal acquisition, Bio-potential measurements, Active and passive sensors,
and Electrodes for biophysical sensing (Ag-AgCl, surface electrodes,
microelectrodes), transducers, sensors.
UNIT III
Biomedical Signals, Imaging and Informatics:
Bioelectric phenomena, Sources of biomedical signals, Origin of biopotentials,
Basics of bio-signal processing, noise, Interference, Electrical safety issues,
Principle of medical imaging techniques, such as X-ray, US, MRI, CT scan,
and nuclear imaging, and Fundamentals of bio-informatics.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Apply knowledge of basic engineering and biology to solve the
problems,
CO2 : Knowledge of human body about cell, potential and organs of body,
CO3 : Develop a thorough understanding on principles of bio-
instrumentation,
CO4 : Explain the role of bio-potential electrodes, and design of sensors,
CO5 : Differentiate and analyse the biomedical signal sources, and
CO6 : Knowledge about imaging techniques used in hospital.
Textbooks:
1. John D. Enderle & Joseph D. Bronzino Introduction to Biomedical
Engineering, Academic press, 3rd Edition, 2012.
Reference Books:
1. Joseph D. Bronzino, Donald R. Peterson,The Biomedical Engineering
Handbook, CRC press, 4th Edition 2015.
2. G.S. Sawhney, Fundamentals of Biomedical Engineering, New Age
International (P) Ltd, 2011.
Course Title Basic Instrumentation
Course Code (Credit) EE10003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The course is designed to impart, to the students, the principles of analog and
digital measuring instruments which include the working mechanisms of
sensors and transducers and their applications in industrial and biomedical
systems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 58

Analog and Digital Instruments:
Basics of measuring instruments, Types of analog instruments, Measurement
of voltage, current, power and energy in single and three phase circuits;
Digital Instruments: Digital voltmeter, Digital multimeter, Timer/counter, and
Time, phase and frequency measurements in oscilloscope.
UNIT II
Sensors and Transducers:
Optical sources and detectors: LED, photo-diode, light dependent resistor;
Basics of fiber optic sensing, IR Sensors. Resistive, capacitive, inductive,
piezoelectric, and Hall effect sensors, Temperature transducers:
Thermocouple, RTD , and thermistor.
UNIT III
Transducers in Industrial Applications:
Measurement of displacement (linear and angular), velocity, acceleration,
force, torque, vibration, shock, pressure, flow, liquid level, pH, conductivity
and viscosity.
UNIT IV:
Instruments in biomedical applications:
ECG, Blood Pressure measurement, CT Scan, and Sonography
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Know the basics of measuring instruments,
CO2 : Measure different electrical quantities,
CO3 :Understand the working principles of optical and electrical transducers
and sensors,
CO4 : Understand the working of electrical transducers and sensors,
CO5 : Apply the transducers in industrial applications, and
CO6 : Use instruments in biomedical applications.
Textbooks:
1. R. K. Rajput ,Electrical and Electronic Measurements and Instruments,S
Chand Publication, 4th Edition, 2015,William David Cooper,Electronic
Instrumentation and Measurement Techniques, by PHI, 2010.
Reference Books:
1. Er. R.K. Jain, Mechanical and Industrial Measurements (Process
Instrumentation and Control), Khanna Publishers, 1995.
2. A.K Sawhney, A course in Electrical and Electronics Measurements and
Instrumentation Dhanpat Rai Publication, 10th Edition, 2012.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 59

3. D Patranabis, Sensors And Tranducers, PHI Publication, 2ndEedition,
2017.
HASS ELECTIVE I
Course Title Society, Science And Technology
Course Code (Credit) HS10013 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
There is a circular relationship between society, science, and technology.
Society creates a need and an ambience to develop science and technology,
and science and technology create means to meet societal needs and new
opportunities to make human life better. Studying this relationship is the
objective of this subject. The subject will expose, before the students, the
past developments of science and technology and the social forces that played
a dominant role in making these developments possible and the way these
were used in the society. The subject will also present the ethical principles
that underlie the development and use of science and technology in the
society.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Human Curiosity to Know the Truth of Nature, Need to Improve Quality of
Life, Emergence of Science and Technology, Characteristics of Society,
Science, and Technology, and Impact of Science and Technology on the
Society.
UNIT II
Scientific Discoveries:
Milestone Scientific Discoveries of the Past and the Ways They Impacted
Human Thought Process and Culture; Scientific Method, Developing a Theory,
and Making of a Discovery; Discoveries in the Physical, Biological, and
Mathematical Sciences; Normal Science, Paradigms, Anomalies, Crisis and
Emergence of Scientific Theories, and Scientific Revolutions.
UNIT III
Technological Developments:
Milestone Developments of Technologies and the Ways They Transformed the
Society. Stories of Technological Developments such as Steam Engines,
Electricity, Semiconductors, and IoT.
UNIT IV
Science and Technology in the Service of the Society
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 60

Contributions of Science and Technology to Solving Societal, Environmental,
and Global Problems. Successes and Limitations, and Abuses and Control of
Science and Technology; Ethical Considerations.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Understand the forces that shape the development of science and
technology,
CO2 :Understand the major milestones of scientific discoveries have
impacted human thought processes,
CO3 :Understand the effect of technological developments in societal
transformation,
CO4 : Analyse the contribution of Science and Technology in solving societal
and Environmental problems,
CO5 : Evaluate the ethical issues related to abuse of science and technology,
and
CO6 : Apply the skills learned to suggest solutions to global problems linked
to science and Technology.
Textbooks:
1. Bucchi, M., Science In Society: An Introduction to Social Studies of
Science, Routledge Publication, 1st Edition, 2004.
Reference Books:
1. Collins, H. and T. Pinch, The Golem: What You Should Know about
Science, 2nd Edition, New York: Cambridge University Press,1998.
2. Collins, H. and T. Pinch,The Golem: What You Should Know about
Technology, 2nd Edition. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2014.
3. Kuhn, T. S.,The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, 4th Edition,
Chicago University Press, 2012.
4. Hatton, J. and P. B. Plouffe, Eds., Science and Its Ways of Knowing,
New Jersey: Prentice Hall,1997.
5. Moskovites, M., Ed., Science and Society, Ontario: House of Anansi
Press Limited,1997
6. Sismondo, S. An Introduction to Science and Technology Studies, 2nd
Edition. Maldon, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 2009.
7. Sarukkai, S. What Is Science?, New Delhi: National Book Trust, India,
2012.
8. USSR Academy of Sciences Science and Society, Moscow: Nauka
Publishers, 1989.
Course Title Essentials Of Management
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 61

Course Code (Credit) HS10202 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
This course explores the basic concepts and processes of management.
Students will learn the importance of management in their professional life
from the stories on the evolution and practices of management. Students will
examine the fundamental roles and processes of planning, organizing,
staffing, directing and controlling that comprise the managers' role. This
course also examines the fundamentals of marketing and financial
management for the success of the organization. This course will make an
attempt to introduce students to the business environment and strategic
management process to understand the nuances of business. Students will
develop skills related to the manager’s function as required in today’s
competitive environment.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Evolution of Management Thoughts:
Concept, Scope and Significance of Management; Classical Approach;
Scientific, Bureaucratic & Administrative theory of Management; Neo-classical
and Modern Approach; Contribution of Management Practitioners
UNIT II
Functions of Management (Part I):
Nature, scope and significance of Planning; Types of Planning; Process of
Planning; Barriers to effective planning; Decision making: concept, types and
process; Organizing: concept and significance; Delegation of authority;
Authority vs.Responsibility; Structure of Organization: departmentalization,
Centralization vs. Decentralization
UNIT III
Functions of Management (Part II):
Concept of Staffing, Manpower planning and Job design; Recruitment and
selection; Training and development; Performance Appraisal; Directing:
Concept, Direction and Supervision; Controlling: Concept, Importance and
levels; Process and types of controlling
UNIT IV
Marketing and Financial Management:
Marketing Mix (Product, place, price, Promotion); Market Segmentation;
Introduction, scope, importance and functions of Financial management;
Introduction to Financial statements: Profit and loss account; balance sheet
UNIT V
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 62

Business Environment and Strategic Management:
Business environment: concept, importance, elements; Types of business
environment; Strategic Management: Concept, Importance and levels of
strategy; Process of Strategic Management
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Learn different approaches, theories and stories of various
practitioners of management and know how such knowledge could be
applied to achieve goals of Organizations within the changing
environment,
CO2 : Understand the core functions of management in order to facilitate
efficient and effective decision making both at individual and
organizational level,
CO3 : Identify the human resource requirement of the organization for
achieving its objective effectively,
CO4 : Synthesize various marketing and financial skills and techniques in
order to be successful in corporate world,
CO5 : Assess the business environment and understand the importance of
various types of business environment for better decision making,
and
CO6 : Acquire the lesson learnt in strategic management process for strategic
decision making by leveraging the core competencies of the
organization.
Textbooks:
1. S.A. Sherlekar & V.S. Sherlekar, Modern Business Organization &
Management (Systems Approach) by Himalya Publishing House,
2018.
2. Harold Koontz and Heinz Weihrich ,Essentials of Management: an
International Perspective by, McGraw Hills, 2020
Reference Books:
1. K. Ashwathappa, Essentials of Business Environment, Himalaya
Publishing House, 2017.
2. Joseph L. Massie, Essentials of Management Pearson Education
India, Fourth edition, 2015.
3. Azhar Kazmi & Adela Kazmi, Strategic Management, McGrawHill, 5th
edition 2020.
Course Title Shades Of Economics
Course Code (Credit) HS10121 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 63

This course will provide technical students with knowledge in concepts of
environmental economics, resource economics, and circular economy,
allowing prosperity for present and future generations. The course will equip
future engineers with skill to handle resources efficiently and effectively.
Acquaint them with the contemporary trends in business settings and thereby
innovate novel solutions to existing problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Purple Economy: Economics of Glocalization:
Introduction to colours and world of economics (including White, Blue, Black,
Green, Purple, Grey, Red, Pink, Silver); Concept and definition of purple
economy; Cultural footprint; Local and global cultural economy; Culture and
well being; Rethinking employment and training in the purple economy; Vocal
for Local; Make in India.
UNIT II
Grey Economy: Economics of Informal Sector:
Concept and definition of grey economy; Introduction to formal and informal
Sector; Formal and informal sector linkage; Labour absorption and dualism in
economy; Theoretical and policy issues; Migration in informal sector.
UNIT III
Green Economy: Economics of Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle:
Concept and definition of green economy; Green investment and green bond;
Green technology and renewable resources; Carbon footprint; Waste
management.
UNIT IV
Blue Economy: Economics of Ocean Resources:
Concept and definition of blue economy; The marine environment; Fisheries
and aquaculture; Tourism; Ocean-based renewable sources of energy;
Transportation and the blue economy; Pollution of water resources; Water
resource management.
UNIT V
Black Economy: Economics of Unsanctioned Sector:
Concept and definition of black money; Causes and consequences of black
economy; Global black income generation; Extent of black money in India.
Government measures to curb black money.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the economic drivers that shape the future of India,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 64

CO2 : Understand sustainability issues related to usage of factor
endowment,
CO3 : Ability to create linkage between Economics, Science and
Technology,
CO4 : Apply knowledge, reasons and the need for regulating circular
economy,
CO5 : Assess and analyses scope for global market opportunities, and
CO6 : Explore yet to be unearthed employment opportunities.
Textbooks:
1. S.K Mishra and V. K. Puri, Indian Economy. Himalaya Publishing
House,2022, ISBN: 978-93-5596-423-6
Reference Books:
1. Uma Kapila. Indian Economy:Economic Development and Policy.
Academic Foundation ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 9332705550 and ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-
9332705555,2022.
2. Taneja and Myer :Economics of development and Planning, Vishal
Publishing Co. ISBN-13 879-8696893839‏‏:‏‏.
3. Datt Gaurav & Mahajan Ashwani , Indian Economy, S Chand &
Company Limited. 2017.
4. Adrian C. Newton, Elena Cantarello, An Introduction to the Green
Economy. Science, Systems and Sustainability,2014
5. Circular Economy- (Re) Emerging Movement. (2020). Shalini Goyal
Bhalla.
4. Shalini Goyal Bhalla. Circular Economy- (Re) Emerging
Movement.,2020.
5. Somnath Hazra & Anindya Bhukta,The Blue Economy. An Asian
Perspective.
6. The Informal Economy: an Employer’s Approach. The Informal
Economy: an Employer’s Approach. 2021.
7. The Purple Economy: An Objective, An Opportunity, 2013.
8. Tom Tietenberg, Lynne Lewis, Environmental and Natural Resource
Economics. 2018.
Course Title Indian Economy Post Liberalisation
Course Code (Credit) HS10123 (L- T- P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Study of this course provides an extensive understanding of changing
structure of Indian economy over time. This course targets to put emphasis
on inclusive growth, reducing poverty, inequality and creating decent
employment in the economy. This course will give an understanding about the
issues faced by an economy in achieving sustainable development.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction and features:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 65

Changing structure of the Indian economy Changing paradigms of
Development Strategies and Economic Reforms.
UNIT II
Poverty, Inequality and Employment:
Various concepts and estimates of poverty; Income inequality; Problem of
unemployment; Interface among growth, poverty and employment; Inclusive
growth and Human Development; Sustainable Development Goals—Targets
for reduction in Poverty, Inequality and Decent Employment.
UNIT III
Demographic Issues:
Demographic trends, size and structure of population; Health and Education;
Skill challenges and demographic dividends; Sustainable Development
Goals—Targets forGreater Wellbeing and Better Human Capital.
UNIT IV
Perspectives in Agriculture, Industry and Services:
Agricultural growth performance and food security; Growth, trends and
changing pattern of Indian industries, industrial reforms and policies;
Services in India’s growth process; Sustainable Development Goals—Targets
for Inclusive and Sustainable Growth.
UNIT V
External Sector and Issues in Indian Public Finance
Foreign trade and trade policy; fiscal devolution, Indian Union Budget and
Tax System
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Interpret the changing structure of Indian economy,
CO2 : Perceive the issues and challenges faced by Indian economy,
CO3 : Evaluate the policies and programmes required to achieve inclusive
growth,
CO4 : Realise the importance of human capital in triggering economic
development,
CO5 : Comprehend the state and role of external sector in strengthening
Indian economy, and
CO6 : Help in achieving sustainable development for the economy.
Textbooks:
1. Uma Kapila, Indian Economy Perfomance and Policies,academic
foundation, 2020,ISBN:978-933270545
Reference Books:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 66

1. S.K. Mishra, and V. K. Puri, Indian Economy, Himalaya Publishing
House,2022, ISBN: 978-93-5596-423-6
2. 2. Gaurav Datt and Ashwani Mahajan, Indian Economy, GENERIC.
Classic Edition, 2022 ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 9352531299 ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-
9352531295
Course Title Socio-Political Environment
Course Code (Credit) SO10043 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The objective of this paper include providing basic knowledge on socio-
political environment of India and to equip the students with an
understanding of their roles, duties and responsibilities in a democratic set
up.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Social Problem in India:
Meaning and Definition of Social Problems, Characteristics, Causes and
Consequences, Problems of Poverty, Unemployment, Population growth,
Problems of Women and Aged, Corruption and Nepotism, Illiteracy, Substance
Abuse, and Terrorism.
UNIT II
Social Stratification:
Equity and Equality, Caste, Religion, Class, Gender Discrimination, Urban
Slums.
UNIT III
Political Institutions:
Meaning and Basic Concepts of Political Institutions: Legislative, Executive
and Judiciary Systems of the Indian Constitution.
UNIT IV
Fundamental Rights and Duties:
Fundamental Rights and Duties in Indian Constitution, Directive Principles of
State Policy.
UNIT V
Contemporary Changes in Political Institutions:
Changing Role of the Government in Contemporary India, Role of Government
in the Formation of National and International Policies and Their Impact on
Business and Trade.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 67

Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand contemporary Indian social problems,
CO2 :Understand the roles and functions of the three political
institutions in our democratic up,
CO3 : Familiarize the students with the Rights and Duties enlisted in the
Indian Constitution,
CO4 : Grasp the interrelationships among political, social and economic
issue,
CO5 :Visualize contemporary changes in Political Institutions, and
CO 6 : Realize the importance of equity, equality, and dignity in a
democratic system.
Textbooks:
1. C. N. Shankar Rao, S. Chand., Indian Social Problems,by S.cahand
Publication,2017
2. M. Laxmikanth., Constitution of India,Cengage Learning,2020.
3. Himanshu Roy & M.P Singh Indian Political System, Pearson
publisher,4th Edition,2018.
4. Ram Ahuja ,Social Problems in India, Rawat publisher,4th
Edition,2014.
Reference Books:
1. Our Parliament, Subhash C Kashyap, NBT, 2021.
2. Social Stratification, Dipankar Gupta (Ed), Oxford India Publication,
1997.
3. Modernisation of Indian Tradition, Yogendra Singh, Rawat Publication,
1986.
Course Title Thinking Perspectives
Course Code (Credit)
PS10043 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Cognition plays a significant role in accumulation and processing of
information. This subject provides an in-depth understanding of some of the
cognitive processes in terms of current theories, models and applications. It
helps learners to understand the importance of these cognitive processes and
the rationale behind cognition, problem solving, critical thinking, and
scientific thinking. It facilitates students to identify and analyze the key
conceptual and theoretical frameworks underpinning cognitive process.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 68

Basics of Cognition:
A Brief History, Emergence of Modern Cognitive Approach, Thinking, Basic
Elements of Thought: Forming Concepts, Propositions, Images.
Reasoning, some Basics sources of error, Information-processing approach,
connectionist approach, evolutionary approach, ecological approach.
UNIT II
Memory Processes and Critical Thinking:
Organization of Long Term Memory, Forgetting, Retrieval and Metamemory;
Proactive and Retroactive inference; Amnesia and Retrieval, Flashbulb
Memory, Eyewitness Memory, Traumatic Memory, False Memories.
Phases of Critical Thinking: Intellectualization, Suggestion, Hypothesis,
Reasoning, and Testing, Critical Thinking Abilities: Thinking, Observational,
and Questioning and Dispositions, Critical Thinking Skills: Analysis,
Communication, Creativity, Problem-solving Skills, and Open-mindedness.
UNIT III
Systems Thinking and Scientific Thinking:
System Definition and Characteristics, Approaches to System Modelling,
Causal-Loop Diagramming, System Archetypes, Micro world and Learning
Laboratory, The Learning Organization and the Fifth Discipline, Systems
Thinking Study, Examples.
Characteristics of Science: Systematic observation and experimentation,
Inductive and deductive reasoning, Lessons from Scientific Thinking:
Empirical Evidence, Logical Reasoning.
UNIT IV
Creativity and Designing Thinking:
Creative Thinking, Stages in Creative Thinking, Nature of Creative Thinking,
Features of Creativity—Novelty, Originality and Usefulness, Guilford’s
Measure of Creativity—Fluency, Flexibility, and Originality, Barriers to
Creativity, Enhancing Individual and Organizational Creativity.
Designing Thinking as a Process of Problem Solving: Defining Problems,
Challenging Assumptions, Developing Concepts, identifying Alternative
Strategies and Solutions, Prototyping, and Experimenting Problem Solving
through Innovative Solutions, Stages of Design Thinking—Empathize, Define,
Ideate, Prototype and Test.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the definition and scope of cognition, problem solving,
and creativity,
CO2 :Understand the theories related to cognition, decision making, and
critical thinking,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 69

CO3 : Understand the classic and current experimental research in
cognitive processes,
CO4 : Develop skills essential in designing and conducting experiments
in cognition, reasoning, and problem solving,
CO5 : Understand various aspects of critical thinking, scientific thinking,
and design thinking process, and
CO6 : Apply the knowledge of cognitive processes to one’s own personal
life and to real life issues.
Textbooks:
1. Solso, R. L.,Cognitive Psychology, Pearson Education, 6th Edition.
2004.
2. Baron, R. A. Psychology,Pearson Education, 5th Edition, 2002
3. Rathus, S.A. Introductory Psychology Wadsworth Cengage,5th Edition,
2016.
4. Ciccarelli, S. & White, N.J, Psychology 5th Edition, Pearson
Education.2017
5. The Fifth Discipline: The Art & Practice of the Learning Organization,
Cengage Publication,2nd Edition, 2006.
6. Cross, N., Design Thinking: Understanding How Designers Think and
Work, Berg Publishers.
Reference Books:
1. Baddley, A.,Human memory: Theory and practice. New York Psychology
Press,1997.
2. Treror, A.,The psychology of language: From data to theory. Taylor
Francis,2002
3. Smith, E.E. &Kosslyn, Cognitive psychology: Mind and brain. Prentice
Hall,2007.
4. Tripathi, A.N. &Babu, Nandita (2008). Cognitive processes. In Misra, G.
Psychology in India: Advances in Research, Vol. 1,Pearson Education.
5. Vaid, J., & Gupta, Ashum,Exploring word recognition in a semi-
alphabetic script: the case of Devanagari. Brain and Language, 81, 679-
690.
Course Title Creativity, Innovation And Entrepreneurship
Course Code (Credit) PS10045 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
The course is designed for students who want to enhance their creative and
innovative skills and apply them to prepare business plans to form
entrepreneurial enterprises. More specifically, the course is designed to help
students to stimulate creativity in themselves and learn the impact of
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 70

innovation on growth creation and design thinking in real-world business
situations. In this course, the concepts of entrepreneurship and the
environment in which the entrepreneurs act will be developed along with
business plans and business models for start-ups.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Definitions, Importance, and Relationships among Creativity, Innovation, and
Entrepreneurship; Examples.
UNIT II
Creativity:
Definitions, Importance, and Relationships among Creativity, Innovation, and
Entrepreneurship; Examples, Creative Thinking and Stages of Creative
Thinking, Barriers to Creativity, Enhancing Individual Creativity, Guilford’s
Usual Unusual Test, Psychometric Approaches to Tests of Creativity,
Structured tools of Creativity (Developing Creative Focus, Exercising Mind,
Setting Directions, Suspending Rules, Thinking Differently, Establishing
Formatted Work Space, Stimulating Mechanisms, Utilizing Experiences.
UNIT III
Innovation:
Innovation, Benefits, Keys to Successful Innovations, Types of Innovation,
Barriers to Innovation, Methods of Generating Ideas, Design Thinking.
Creative Problem Solving, and Measures of Innovation.
UNIT IV
Entrepreneurship:
Entrepreneur, Functions of an Entrepreneur, Types of Entrepreneur,
Intrapreneur, Social Entrepreneur, Case Study on the Entrepreneurial
Excellence of N. R. Narayan Murthy, Introduction to Agricultural, Rural,
Tourism, Social and Digital Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial Motivational
Behavior (Creativity, Self-Efficacy, Locus of Control, Risk Taking, Leadership,
Communication), Converting Ideas into Products/Services with Differentiating
Features, Niche Market, Design of the Products/Services, Bootstrap
Marketing, Formulation of Business Plan, Business Model, Financial
Planning, and Sources of Finance.
Practical classes will be devoted to organizing practicing sessions on
creativity, case study discussion sessions and market analysis sessions on
generating novel ideas, and developing and presenting business plans.
Students, in groups, will design a new product/service, do a bootstrap market
study, develop a business plan, and make an elevator pitch.
Course Outcomes:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 71

Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the key elements of creativity and innovation,
CO2 : Visualize the impact of innovation on growth creation,
CO3 : Apply creative and design thinking to real-world business situations,
CO4 : Create a foundation of entrepreneurship development and its theories,
CO5 : Develop business plans and business models to start entrepreneurial
enterprises, and
CO6 : Analyze the business plan and implement it in real field.
Textbooks:
1. Khanka, S. S. Creativity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship, S.Chand .
2. Praveen Gupta, Business Innovation, S. Chand , 2007
Reference Books:
1. Barringer B. R. and R. Duane, Entrepreneurship: Successfully
Launching New Ventures: Pearson Prentice Hall, Ireland, 3rd Edition
2009.
2. Duening, T. N., R. D. Hisrich, and M. A. Lechter , Technology
Entrepreneurship: Taking Innovation to the Marketplace, Elsevier,
Amsterdam, 2nd Edition 2015.
3. Harrington, H. J., Creativity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship: The
Only Way to Renew Your Organization, Routledge, 2019.
Course Title Community/Environment-Based Projects
Course Code (Credit) EX17001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-4-2)
Course Objective:
This course is offered to give the students an opportunity to connect with the
community and the environment, learn and prioritize their problems, and
define the problems in ways that make them amenable to scientific analysis
and pragmatic solution. Appreciating the community problems, visualizing
and experiencing them in person, self-learning, applying to realities,
searching for and finding implementable solutions are the primary benefits of
this project-based subject.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1 : Identify need of the community,
CO2 : Formulate objective of a project,
CO3 : Communicate orally and through formal technical write-ups,
CO4 : Analyze and interpret data wherever essential,
CO5 : Provide an implementable solution to the problem, and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 72

CO6 : Work in team following ethical manners.
The projects will be applied to problems uppermost in the minds of the
community regarding the problems that they confront regularly. The
problems may range from social inequality and social justice to lack of
common services such as health, education, water, power, banking, and from
lack of access to government subsidies and policies to deforestation and
environmental problems.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 73

COUTRSE STRUCTURE FOR B.TECH IN COMPUTER SCIENCE &
ENGINEERING
SEMESTER III
Theory
Sl. Course Code Course Title L T P Total Credit
No
1. EX20003 Scientific and Technical 2 0 0 2 2
Writing OR
1. HASS Elective- II 3 0 0 3 3
2. MA21001 Probability and Statistics 3 1 0 4 4
3 EX20001 Industry 4.0 Technologies 2 0 0 2 2
4. CS21001 Data Structures 3 1 0 4 4
5. EC20005 Digital Systems Design 3 0 0 3 3
6. CS21003 Automata Theory and Formal 3 1 0 4 4
Languages
Total of Theory 19 19/20
Practical
1. CS29001 Data Structures Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. EC29005 Digital Systems Design 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
Total 23 21/22
SEMESTER IV
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. EX20003 Scientific and Technical 2 0 0 2 2
Writing OR
1. HASS Elective II 3 0 0 3 3
2. MA21002 Discrete Structures 3 1 0 4 4
3. CS20002 Operating Systems 3 0 0 3 3
4. CS20004 Object Oriented Programming 3 0 0 3 3
using Java
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 74

5. CS20006 Database Management 3 0 0 3 3
Systems
6. CS21002 Computer Organization and 3 1 0 4 4
Architecture
Total of Theory 20 19/20
Practical
1. CS29002 Operating Systems Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS29004 Java Programming Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
3. CS29006 Database Management 0 0 2 2 1
Systems Laboratory
4. CS28001 Vocational Electives 0 0 2 2 1
Total 27 23/24
SEMESTER V
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HS30101 Engineering Economics 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 0 3 3
3. CS31001 Software Engineering 3 1 0 4 4
4. CS30003 Computer Networks 3 0 0 3 3
5. Professional Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. Professional Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39001 Algorithms Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS39003 Computer Networks Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
3. K-Explore Open Elective-I 0 0 2 2 1
Total 25 22
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 75

SEMESTER VI
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective- III 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS31002 Machine Learning 3 1 0 4 4
3. CS30002 Artificial Intelligence 3 0 0 3 3
4. Professional Elective-III 3 0 0 3 3
5. Open Elective-II/MI-1 3 0 0 3 3
6. HS30401 Universal Human Values 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39002 Artificial Intelligence 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
2. CS33002 Applications Development 0 1 2 2 2
Laboratory
3. CS37001 Mini Project 0 0 4 4 2
Total 28 24
SEMESTER VII (for B. Tech. (Hons.)
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
3. Open Elective-III/ (MI-II) 3 0 0 3 3
4. Minor –III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor –IV (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Sessional
1. CS47001 Project- I 0 0 10 10 5
2. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 76

3. CS39008 MI- (Computing Laboratory) 0 1 2 2 2
Total 18 15
SEMESTER VIII (B. Tech. (Hons.))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-V 3 0 0 3 3
2. Open Elective–IV/Minor-V 3 0 0 3 3
(Optional)
3. Minor- VI 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 6 6
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 18 18 9
Total 24 15
SEMESTER VII (B.Tech.(Research))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40001 Research Methods and Ethics 3 0 0 3 3
3. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
4. Minor-II (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor-III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
6. Minor-IV (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Sessional
1. CS47001 Research Project- I 0 0 10 10 5
2. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
Total 18 15
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 77

SEMESTER VIII B.Tech.(Research)
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. Minor –V (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
3. Minor- VI (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 3 3
Sessional
1. CS47002 Research Project- II 0 0 24 24 12
Total 27 15
Credit Distribution
Semester I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total
Credit 21 20 22 23 22 24 15 15 162
SCIENCE CORE COURSES
Sl. Course Pre-
No. Code Course requisites Credits
Title
1. MA21001 Probability and Statistics - 4
2. MA21002 Discrete Structures 4
PROGRAMME CORE COURSES
Sl. Course Pre-
No. Code Course requisites Credits
Title
1. CS21001 Data Structures CS13001 4
2. EC20005 Digital Systems Design EC10001 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 78

CS21003 Automata Theory and Formal - 4
3.
Languages
CS20002 Operating Systems - 3
4.
CS20004 Object Oriented Programming - 3
5.
using Java
CS20006 Database Management Systems CS21001 3
6.
CS21002 Computer Organization and - 4
7.
Architecture
8. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms CS21001 3
9. CS31001 Software Engineering - 4
10. CS30003 Computer Networks - 3
11. CS31002 Machine Learning - 4
CS30002 Artificial Intelligence - 3
12.
Total 41
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre- Credits
No. Code Title requisites
1. Data Structures Laboratory CS13001 1
CS29001
2. Digital Systems Design Laboratory 1
EC29005
3. Operating Systems Laboratory CS20002 1
CS29002
4. Java Programming Laboratory 1
CS29004
5. Database Management Systems CS20006 1
CS29006 Laboratory
6. Algorithms Laboratory CS30001 1
CS39001
7. Computer Networks Laboratory CS30003 1
CS39003
8. Artificial Intelligence Laboratory CS30002 1
CS39002
9. Applications Development Laboratory 2
CS33002 CS13001
Total 10
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 79

PROGRAMME SESSIONAL COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre- Credits
No. Code Title requisites
1. CS48001 Internship 2
2. CS37001 Mini Project 2
3. CS47001 Project-I 5
4. CS47002 Project-II 9
5. CS28001 Vocational Electives 1
Total 19
PROFESIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES (PE)
Sl. No Course Course Pre- Credits
Code Title requisites
Professional Elective –I
1. CS30005 High Performance Computing CS21002 3
2. ARM and Advanced EC20002 3
EC30007
Microprocessors
3. CS30007 Multi-Core Programming CS21002 3
4. CS30009 Distributed Operating Systems CS20002 3
Professional Elective –II
1. CS30011 Computational Intelligence - 3
2. CM30006 Compiler CS21001 3
3. CS30013 Data Mining and Data CS20006 3
Warehousing
4. CS30015 Image Processing and Applications MA21002 3
Professional Elective –III
1. CS30010 Cloud Computing CS20002 3
2. CS30026 Computer Vision CS40007 3
3. CS30012 Software Project Management CS31001 3
4. CS30014 Time Series Forecasting MA21002 3
5. CS30016 Natural Language Processing CM30006 3
Professional Elective –IV/ Research Elective-I
1. CS40001 Deep Learning Techniques CS31002 3
2. CS40003 Software Testing and Automation CS31001 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 80

3. CS40005 Human Computer Interaction CS30002 3
4. CS40007 Computer Graphics and MA21002 3
Multimedia Systems
5. CS40009 Principles of Cryptography MA21002 3
Professional Elective –V/ Research Elective-II
1. CS40002 Nature Inspired Computing - 3
2. CS40004 IOT and Applications EC20005 3
3 CS40006 Agile Software Development - 3
4. CS40008 Social Network Analysis - 3
5. CS40010 Augmented and Virtual Reality CS30015 3
Specialization
Sl. No. Elective Course Name
Elective-III Software Project Management
Software Elective-IV Software Testing and Automation
1.
Engineering
Elective-V Agile Software Development
Elective-III Natural Language Processing
Artificial Elective-IV
Deep Learning Techniques
2.
Intelligence
Elective-V Augmented and Virtual Reality
HASS ELECTIVE COURSES
Sl. Course Code Course Title Credits
No
HASS Elective- II
1. HS20220 Organizational Behavior 3
2. HS20120 Economics of Development 3
3. HS20122 International Economic Cooperation 3
HASS Elective- III
1. HS30223 Business Ethics and Corporate Governance 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 81

2. HS30225 Leadership and Team Effectiveness 3
3. HS30125 Market Structure and Pricing Policies 3
4. HS30127 Pragmatic Inquiry 3
5. HS30129 Economic Analysis of Decision Rules 3
6. HS30131 Economics of Health and Education 3
7. HS30421 Gender Studies 3
8. HS30425 Indian Knowledge System 3
9. HS30423 Tribal Resource Management 3
VOCATIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES OFFERED BY DIFFERNET
SCHOOLS
Vocational courses offered by School of Computer Engineering
Course Code Course Title
Sl. No.
1. CS28001 Web Design
Vocational courses offered by School of Civil Engineering
1 CE28001 Building Drawing, Estimation & Costing
(for Civil Engineering Students)
2 CE28003 GIS & GPS Applications
(For other branch students)
Vocational courses offered by School of Electrical Engineering
1 EE28011 Industrial wiring and control panel design
EE28013 Installation, operation and maintenance of solar power
2
system
3 EE28015 Domestic wiring and home automation
4 EE28017 Cyber physics application in industrial IOT
5 EE28019 Industrial Control and Remote Monitoring
Vocational courses offered by School of Electronics Engineering
1. EC28001 Computational Photography
2. EC28003 Sound Engineering
3. EC28005 Sensors for Automation
4. EC28007 PCB Design
Vocational courses offered by School of Mechanical Engineering
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 82

1 ME28011 Additive Manufacturing(3-D Printing)
2 ME28013 Die development by CNC milling
3 ME28015 Concept Car Manufacturing
4 ME28017 Development of Autonomous Wheeled Robots
5 ME28019 Modelling of Micro-Wind turbine by 3D CAD Design
XPLORE OPEN ELECTIVE COURSES OFFERED BY KSAC
Course Code Course Title
SA38001 Robotics
SA38003 Web Designing
SA38005 Civil-Tech
SA38007 Circuit Design & Control
SA38009 Indian Classical, Folk & Bollywood Dance
SA38011 Indian Classical & Western Music
SA38013 Graphic Designing & Editing
SA38015 Art & Craft
SA38017 Theatre & Street Play
SA38019 Film Making
SA38021 Debating, Public Speaking& Anchoring
SA38023 Creative Writing
SA38025 Photography & Videography
SA38027 Fashion Styling
SA38029 Culinary Arts
SA38031 Quiz Activity
SA38033 Social Outreach
SA38035 Health & Emergency Care
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 83

COURSE STRUCTURE FOR B.TECH IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
SEMESTER III
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. EX20003 Scientific and Technical 2 0 0 2 2
Writing
2. MA21001 Probability & Statistics 3 1 0 4 4
3 CS21001 Data Structures 3 1 0 4 4
4. EC20008 Communication Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
5. CS20004 Object Oriented Programming 3 0 0 3 3
using Java
6. CS21002 Computer Organization and 3 1 0 4 4
Architecture
Total of Theory 20 20
Practical
1. CS29001 Data Structures Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. EC29002 Communication Engineering 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. CS29004 Java Programming Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
Total 26 23
SEMESTER IV
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HS30101 Engineering Economics 3 0 0 3 3
2. MA21002 Discrete Structures 3 1 0 4 4
3. EX20001 Industry 4.0 Technologies 2 0 0 2 2
4. CS20002 Operating Systems 3 0 0 3 3
5. CS20006 Database Management 3 0 0 3 3
Systems
6. CS20008 Information Theory and Coding 3 0 0 3 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 84

Total of Theory 18 18
Practical
5. CS29002 Operating Systems Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
6. CS29004 Database Management 0 0 2 2 1
Systems Laboratory
7. CS28001 Vocational Electives 0 0 2 2 1
Total 24 21
SEMESTER V
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 0 3 3
3. CS31001 Software Engineering 3 1 0 4 4
4. CS30003 Computer Networks 3 0 0 3 3
5. Professional Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. Professional Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39001 Algorithms Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS39003 Computer Networks Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
3. K-Explore Open Elective-I 0 0 2 2 1
Total 25 22
SEMESTER VI
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective -III 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS31002 Machine Learning 3 1 0 4 4
3. CS30004 Data Science and Analytics 3 0 0 3 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 85

4. Professional Elective-III 3 0 0 3 3
5. Open Elective –II/ MI-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. HS30401 Universal Human Values 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39004 Data Analytics Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS39006 Advance Programming 2 0 0 2 2
Laboratory
3. CS37001 Mini Project 0 0 4 4 2
Total 27 24
SEMESTER VII (B. Tech. (Hons.))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
3. Open Elective-III/ (MI-II) 3 0 0 3 3
4. Minor -III(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor -IV(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Sessional
1. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
2. CS47001 Project – I 0 0 10 10 5
3. CS39008 MI- (Project/Computing 0 1 2 2 (2)
Laboratory)
Total 18 15
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 86

SEMESTER VIII (B. Tech. (Hons.))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-V 3 0 0 3 3
2. Open Elective–IV/Minor-V 3 0 0 3 3
(Optional)
3. Minor- VI 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 6 6
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 18 18 9
Total 24 15
SEMESTER VII (B.Tech.(Research))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40001 Research Methods and Ethics 3 0 0 3 3
3. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
4. Minor-II (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor-III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
6. Minor-IV (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Sessional
1. CS47001 Research Project- I 0 0 10 10 5
2. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
Total 18 15
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 87

SEMESTER VIII B.Tech.(Research)
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. Minor -V(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
3. Minor- VI (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 3 3
Sessional
1. CS47002 Research Project- II 0 0 24 24 12
Total 27 15
Credit Distribution
Semester I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total
Credit 21 20 23 21 22 24 15 15 161
SCIENCE CORE COURSES
Sl. Course Pre-
No. Code Course requisites Credits
Title
1. MA21001 Probability and Statistics - 4
2. MA21002 Discrete Structures - 4
PROGRAMME CORE COURSES
Sl. Course Pre-
Course
No. Code requisites Credits
Title
1. CS21001 Data Structures CS13001 4
Object Oriented
3
2. CS20004 -
Programming using Java
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 88

Computer Organization and
3. CS21002 CS13001 4
Architecture
4. EC20008 Communication Engineering EC20001 3
5. CS20002 Operating Systems CS21001 3
CS20006 Database Management Systems 3
6. CS21001
CS20008 Information Theory and Coding 3
7. MA21002
8. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms CS21001 3
9. CS31001 Software Engineering CS13001 4
10. CS30003 Computer Networks - 3
11. CS31002 Machine Learning - 4
12. CS30004 Data Science and Analytics MA21002 3
Total 40
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre-/ Co-
Credits
No. Code Title requisites
Data Structures Laboratory CS13001 1
1. CS29001
EC29002 Communication Engineering EC20001
2.
Laboratory EC21001
Java Programming Laboratory - 1
3. CS29004
Operating Systems Laboratory CS20002 1
4. CS29002
Database Management Systems CS20006 1
CS29006
5.
Laboratory
6. CS39001 Algorithms Laboratory CS21001 1
Computer Networks Laboratory CS30003 1
7. CS39003
Data Analytics Laboratory CS30004 1
8.
CS39004
Advance Programming Laboratory - 2
9. CS39006
Total 9
PROGRAMME SESSIONAL COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre-/ Co- Credits
No. Code Title requisites
1. CS48001 Internship - 2
2. CS37001 Mini Project - 2
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 89

3. CS47001 Project-I - 5
4. CS47002 Project-II - 9
5. CS28001 Vocational Electives - 1
Total 19
PROFESIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES (PE)
Sl. Course Course Pre- Credits
No Code Title requisites
Professional Elective –I
1. CS30002 Artificial Intelligence - 3
CS21003
Automata Theory and Formal
2. - 3
Languages
3. CS30014 Time Series Forecasting MA21002 3
4. CS30015 Image Processing and Applications MA21002 3
5. CS30019 - 3
Web Technology and Applications
Professional Elective –II
1. Big Data CS20006
CS30017 3
2. Real Time Systems -
CS30021 3
3. Computational Intelligence -
CS30011 3
4. Software Defined Networking CS30003
CS30023 3
Professional Elective –III
1. Software Project Management CS31001
CS30012 3
2. Augmented and Virtual Reality CS30015
CS40010 3
3. Information Security MA21002 3
CS20010
4. Cloud Computing CS20002
CS30010 3
Professional Elective –IV/ Research Elective-I
1. CS40003 Software Testing and Automation - 3
2. CS40001 Deep Learning Techniques CS31002 3
3. CS40005 Human Computer Interaction CS30002 3
4. CS40009 Principles of Cryptography MA21002 3
5. CS40011 Mobile Computing - 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 90

Professional Elective –V/ Research Elective-II
1. Agile Software Development CS31001
CS40006 3
2. Nature Inspired Computing -
CS40002 3
3 Social Network Analysis -
CS40008 3
4. Block Chain -
CS40012 3
5. Game Theory -
CS40014 3
Specialization
Sl. No. Elective Course Name
Elective-III Software Project
Management
Software Elective-IV Software Testing and
1.
Engineering Automation
Elective-V Agile Software
Development
Elective-III
Information Security
Information
Elective-IV
Principles of Cryptography
2. Security
Elective-V Block Chain
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 91

COURSE STRUCTIURE FOR B.TECH IN COMPUTER SCIENCE &
COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
SEMESTER III
Theory
Sl. No Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
Code
1. EX20003 Scientific and Technical Writing 2 0 0 2 2
2. MA21001 Probability & Statistics 3 1 0 4 4
3. EX20001 Industry 4.0 Technologies 2 0 0 2 2
4. CS21001 Data Structures 3 1 0 4 4
5. EC20005 Digital Systems Design 3 0 0 3 3
6. EC20008 Communication Engineering 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 18 18
Practical
1. CS29001 Data Structures Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. EC29005 Digital Systems Design 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. EC 29002 Communication Engineering 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
Total of Practical 6 3
Total 24 21
SEMESTER IV
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HS30101 Engineering Economics 3 0 0 3 3
2. MA21002 Discrete Structures 3 1 0 4 4
3. CS20002 Operating Systems 3 0 0 3 3
4. CS20006 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 3
5. CS20004 Object Oriented Programming 3 0 0 3 3
using Java
6. CS20010 Information Security 3 0 0 3 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 92

Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS29002 Operating Systems Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS29006 Database Management Systems 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. CS29004 Java Programming Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
4. CS28001 Vocational Electives 0 0 2 2 1
Total of Practical 8 4
Total 27 23
SEMESTER V
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective - II 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30001 Design and Analysis of 3 0 0 3 3
Algorithms
3. CS31001 Software Engineering 3 1 0 4 4
4. CS30003 Computer Networks 3 0 0 3 3
5. Professional Elective - I 3 0 0 3 3
6. Professional Elective - II 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39001 Algorithms Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS39003 Computer Networks 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. K-Explore Open Elective 0 0 2 2 1
- I
Total of Practical 6 3
Total 25 22
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 93

SEMESTER VI
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective – III 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30010 Cloud Computing 3 0 0 3 3
3. EC30002 Wireless Mobile Communication 3 0 0 3 3
4. Professional Elective - III 3 0 0 3 3
5. Open Elective – II / MI-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. HS30401 Universal Human Values 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 18 18
Practical
1. EC39002 Wireless Communication & 0 0 2 2 1
Networking Lab
2. CS39006 Advance Programming 2 0 0 2 2
Laboratory
3. CS37001 Mini Project 0 0 4 4 2
Total of Practical 8 5
Total 26 23
SEMESTER VII (for B. Tech. (Hons.)
Theory
Sl. Course Title L T P Total Credit
No
1 Professional Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40003 Engineering Professional 2 0 0 2 2
Practice
3. Open Elective – III / MI-II 3 0 0 3 3
4. Minor –III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 3
5. Minor –IV (Optional) 3 0 0 3 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 94

Total of Theory 8 8
Practical
1. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
2. CS47001 Project – I 0 0 10 10 5
3. CS39008 MI- (Project/ Computing 0 1 2 2 (3)
Laboratory)
Total 18 15
SEMESTER VIII (B. Tech. (Hons.))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-V 3 0 0 3 3
2. Open Elective-IV/ Minor-V 3 0 0 3 3
(Optional)
3. Minor-VI (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 6 6
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 18 18 9
Total 24 15
SEMESTER VII (B.Tech.(Research))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40001 Research Methods and Research 3 0 0 3 3
Ethics
3. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
4. Minor -II(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor -III(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
6. Minor -IV(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 95

Sessional
1. CS47001 Project- I 0 0 10 10 5
2. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
Total 18 15
SEMESTER VIII ( B.Tech.(Research)
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. Minor -V(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
3. Minor -VI(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 3 3
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 24 24 12
Total 27 15
Credit Distribution
Semester I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total
Credit 21 20 21 23 22 23 15 15 160
PROGRAMME CORE COURSES
Sl. Course Pre-
Course Credits
No. Code requisites
Title
1. CS21001 Data Structures CS13001 4
EC20005 Digital Systems Design EC10001
2. 3
EC20008 Communication Engineering EC20001
3. 3
4. CS20002 Operating Systems CS21001 3
5. CS20006 Database Management Systems CS21001 3
CS20004 CS13001 3
6. Object Oriented Programming
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 96

using Java
CS20010 Information Security MA21002 3
7.
8. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms CS21001 3
9. CS31001 Software Engineering CS13001 4
10
CS30003 Computer Networks - 3
.
11 3
CS30010 Cloud Computing CS20002
.
EC21002/
EC30002 3
12 Wireless Mobile Communication
EC20008
.
Total 38
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Sl. Course Course Title Pre-/ Co- Credits
No. Code requisites
Data Structures Laboratory CS13001 1
1. CS29001
Digital Systems Design EC20005 1
2. EC29005
Laboratory
EC 29002 Communication Engineering EC20001/ 1
3.
Laboratory EC21001
Operating Systems CS20002 1
4. CS29002
Laboratory
Java Programming - 1
5. CS29004
Laboratory
Database Management CS20006 1
6. CS29006
Systems Laboratory
Algorithms Laboratory CS21001 1
7. CS39001
Computer Networks CS30003 1
8.
CS39003 Laboratory
Wireless Communication & EC21002 1
EC39002
9.
Networking Lab
Advance Programming - 2
CS39006
10.
Laboratory
Total 11
PROGRAMME SESSIONAL COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre-/ Co- Credits
No. Code Title requisites
1. CS48001 Internship - 2
2. CS37001 Mini Project - 2
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 97

3. CS47001 Project-I - 5
4. CS47002 Project-II - 9
5. CS28001 Vocational Electives - 1
Total 19
PROFESIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES (PE)
Sl. Course Course Pre- Credits
No Code Title requisites
Professional Elective –I
1. CS20008 Information Theory and Coding MA21002 3
2. EC30023 Digital Signal Processing EC20006 3
3. CS40011 Mobile Computing - 3
4. CS30004 Data Science and Analytics MA21002 3
Professional Elective –II
1. CS30011 Computational Intelligence - 3
2. CS40002 Nature Inspired Computing - 3
3. CS40004 IOT and Applications - 3
4. EC30025 Fiber Optic Communication Systems & EC20008 3
Networks
Professional Elective –III
1. CS40012 Block Chain - 3
2. EC40018 Smart Antennas - 3
3. EC30022 Satellite Communication System - 3
4. CS40006 Agile Software Development - 3
5. CS40007 Computer Graphics and Multimedia MA21002 3
Systems
Professional Elective –IV/ Research Elective-I
1. CS40001 Deep Learning Techniques CS31002 3
2. CS40005 Human Computer Interaction CS30002 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 98

3. CS30015 Image Processing and Applications - 3
4. CS40013 Multimedia Systems - 3
5. CS30012 Software Project Management CS31001
Professional Elective –V/ Research Elective-II
1. CS40003 Software Testing and Automation CS31001 3
2. CS30026 Computer Vision - 3
3. CS40008 Social Network Analysis - 3
4. CS40010 Augmented and Virtual Reality - 3
Specialization
Sl. Elective Course Name
No.
Elective-III Computer Graphics and
Multimedia Systems
Computer Elective-IV Image Processing and
1.
Vision Applications
Elective-V Computer Vision
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 99

COURSE STRUCTURE FOR B.TECH IN COMPUTER SCIENCE & SYSTEM
ENGINEERING
SEMESTER III
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. EX20003 Scientific and Technical Writing 2 0 0 2 2
2. MA21001 Probability & Statistics 3 1 0 4 4
3. CS21001 Data Structures 3 1 0 4 4
4. EC20005 Digital Systems Design 3 0 0 3 3
5. CS20004 Object Oriented Programming 3 0 0 3 3
using Java
6. CS21002 Computer Organization and 3 1 0 4 4
Architecture
Total of Theory 20 20
Practical
1. CS29001 Data Structures Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. EC29005 Digital Systems Design 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. CS29004 Java Programming Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
Total 26 23
SEMESTER IV
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HS30101 Engineering Economics 3 0 0 3 3
2. MA 21002 Discrete Structures 3 1 0 4 4
3. EX20001 Industry 4.0 Technologies 2 0 0 2 2
4. CS20002 Operating Systems 3 0 0 3 3
5. CS20006 Database Management Systems 3 0 0 3 3
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 100

6. EC20006 Principle of Signals & Systems 3 1 0 4 4
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS29002 Operating Systems Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS29004 Database Management Systems 0 0 2 2 1
Laboratory
3. CS28001 Vocational Electives 0 0 2 2 1
Total 25 22
SEMESTER V
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 0 0 3 3
3. CS31001 Software Engineering 3 1 0 4 4
4. CS30003 Computer Networks 3 0 0 3 3
5. Professional Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. Professional Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 19 19
Practical
1. CS39001 Algorithms Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
2. CS39003 Computer Networks Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
3. K-Explore (Open Elective-I) 0 0 2 2 1
Total 25 22
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 101

SEMESTER VI
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. HASS Elective -III 3 0 0 3 3
2. CS30006 Compilers 3 0 0 3 3
3. EC30007 ARM and Advanced 3 0 0 3 3
Microprocessors
4. Professional Elective-III 3 0 0 3 3
5. Open Elective –II / MI-I 3 0 0 3 3
6. HS30401 Universal Human Values 3 0 0 3 3
Total of Theory 18 18
Practical
1. ARM Laboratory 0 0 2 2 1
EC39006
2. CS39006 Advance Programming 2 0 0 2 2
Laboratory
3. CS37001 Mini Project 0 0 4 4 2
Total 26 23
SEMESTER VII (for B. Tech. (Hons.)
Theory
Sl. Course Title L T P To Credi
No tal t
1 Professional Elective-IV 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40003 Engineering Professional 2 0 0 2 2
Practice
3. Open Elective – III/ MI-II 3 0 0 3 3
4. Minor - III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5. Minor - IV (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Practical
1. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 102

2. CS47001 Project – I 0 0 10 10 5
3 CS39008 MI-(Project / Computing 0 1 2 2 (2)
Laboratory)
Total 18 15
SEMESTER VIII (B. Tech. (Hons.))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Professional Elective-V 3 0 0 3 3
2. Open Elective-IV / Minor –V 3 0 0 3 3
3. Minor-VI 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 6 6
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 18 18 9
Total 24 15
SEMESTER VII (B.Tech.(Research))
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-I 3 0 0 3 3
2. EX40001 Research Methods and Research 3 0 0 3 3
Ethics
3. EX40003 Engineering Professional Practice 2 0 0 2 2
4. Minor-II (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
5 Minor-III (Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
6 Minor-IV(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 8 8
Sessional
1. CS47001 Project- I 0 0 10 10 5
2. CS48001 Internship - - - - 2
Total 18 15
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 103

SEMESTER VIII ( B.Tech.(Research)
Theory
Sl. Course Course Title L T P Total Credit
No Code
1. Research Elective-II 3 0 0 3 3
2. Minor -V(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
3. Minor -VI(Optional) 3 0 0 3 (3)
Total of Theory 3 3
Sessional
1. CS47002 Project- II 0 0 24 24 12
Total 27 15
Credit Distribution
Semester I II III IV V VI VII VIII Total
Credit 21 20 23 22 22 23 15 15 161
PROGRAMME CORE COURSES
Course
Sl. Course Pre-
Title Credits
No. Code requisites
1. CS21001 Data Structures CS13001 4
Digital Systems Design
2. EC20005 CS13001 3
3. EC20006 Principle of Signals & Systems - 3
3
4. CS20002 Operating Systems CS21001
5. Object Oriented Programming CS13001 3
CS20004
using Java
- 3
6. CS20006 Database Management Systems
Computer Organization and CS13001 4
7. CS21002 Architecture
8. CS21001 3
CS30001 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
CS13001 4
9. CS31001 Software Engineering
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 104

- 3
10. CS30003 Computer Networks
11. CS21001 3
CS30006 Compilers
ARM and Advanced EC20002 3
12. EC30007 Microprocessors
Total 39
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Pre
Sl. Course
Course Title requisite Credits
No. Code
s
1. Data Structures Laboratory CS13001 1
CS29001
2. Digital Systems Design - 1
EC29005
Laboratory
3. Operating Systems Laboratory CS20002 1
CS29002
4. Java Programming Laboratory - 1
CS29004
5. Database Management Systems CS20006 1
CS29006
Laboratory
6. Algorithms Laboratory CS21001 1
CS39001
7. Computer Networks Laboratory CS30003 1
CS39003
8. ARM Laboratory EC21002 1
EC39006
9. Advance Programming Laboratory - 2
CS39006
Total 10
PROGRAMME SESSIONAL COURSES
Sl. Course Course Pre-/ Co- Credits
No. Code Title requisites
1. CS48001 Internship 2
2. CS37001 Mini Project 2
3. CS47001 Project-I 5
4. CS47002 Project-II 9
5. CS28001 Vocational Electives 1
Total 19
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 105

PROFESIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES (PE)
Sl. Course Course Pre- Credits
No Code Title requisites
Professional Elective -I
1. Artificial Intelligence CS30001 3
CS30002
2. Modeling and Simulation - 3
CS30025
3. High Performance Computing CS21002 3
CS3005
4. Image Processing and Applications MA21002 3
CS30015
Professional Elective -II
1. Machine Learning - 3
CS31002
2. Distributed Operating Systems CS20002 3
CS30009
3. VLSI CIRCUITS & SYSTEMS EC21001/ 3
EC30005
EC20005
4. Computational Intelligence - 3
CS30011
Professional Elective -III
1. CS30013 Data Mining and Data Warehousing CS20006 3
2. Robotics and Applications - 3
CS30027
3. Embedded Systems CS21002 3
EC30024
4. Agile Software Development - 3
CS40006
Professional Elective –IV/ Research Elective-I
1. Deep Learning Techniques CS31002 3
CS40001
2. Human Computer Interaction CS30002 3
CS40005
3. Computer Graphics and Multimedia MA21002 3
CS40007
Systems
4. Computer Vision CS40007 3
CS30026
5. Data Science and Analytics -
CS30004
Professional Elective –V/ Research Elective-II
1. Software Testing and Automation CS31001 3
CS40003
2. Nature Inspired Computing - 3
CS40002
3. Augmented and Virtual Reality CS30015 3
CS40010
4. Social Network Analysis MA21002 3
CS40008
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 106

Specialization
Sl. Elective Course Name
No.
Elective-III Robotics and Applications
Elective-
Human Computer Interaction
Human Robot
1. IV
Interaction
Elective-V Augmented and Virtual Reality
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 107

Detailed Syllabus
Course Title Probability and Statistics
Course Code (Credit) MA21001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
The objective of this course is to familiarize the students with the foundation
of probability and statistics and to use it in solving the problems arises in
engineering and real life applications.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Probability and random variables:
Basic concepts of sample space, events(with example), Axiom of
Probability,Conditional Probability, Bayes’ Theorem and its
applications.Discrete random variable, probability mass function, cumulative
distribution function and Moment Generating function for discrete random
variable, some special distributions likeUniform distribution, Geometric
distribution, Binomial distribution, Negative Binomial distribution, Poisson
distribution, Hypergeometric distribution, mean and variance.Continuous
random variable, density function, cumulative distribution function and
Moment Generating function. Uniform distribution, normal distribution,
mean, variance, percentile and critical value of normal distribution,normal
approximation of the binomial distributionand exponential distribution.
UNIT II
Joint probability and distributions:
Joint probability mass function and marginal probability mass function, joint
probability density function and marginal probability density function,
concept of independent random variable(joint probability), conditional
probability mass function and conditional probability density function.
Expected value, covariance and correlation for jointly distributed random
variable(both continuous and discrete).
UNIT III
Descriptive Statistics:
Frequency distribution, pictorial and tabular representation of data, stem and
leaf display, dot plots, histogram, box plots and comparative box plots.Basic
conceptson mean, median and mode, Skewness, Kurtosis, Correlation,
Coefficient of Correlation, rank correlation, Regression Analysis: Least square
method.
UNIT IV
Inferential statistics:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 108

Population, sample, random sample, sampling distribution, distribution of
sample mean, central limit theorem, point estimator, point estimation of
parameter using method of maximum likelihood estimation, confidence
interval, confidence interval for the mean of a normal population with known
and unknown variance, confidence interval for the variance of a normal
population, hypothesis testing, one sided and two sided alternatives, Tests for
mean of the normal distribution with known variance, Tests for mean of the
normal distribution with unknown variance, tests for variance of the normal
distribution.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand basic probability and its applications
CO2: Study probability distributions and can use it in real life data analysis
CO3: Have a knowledge on univariate and bivariate distributions and their
properties
CO4: Measure the central tendency and dispersion of a data set to draw
conclusion from the data and interpret the data with the appropriate
pictorial representation.
CO5: Have good understanding of the Central Limit Theorem and its
applications
CO6: Analyze the statistical inference
Textbooks:
1. Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Sciences by J. L. Devore,
CENGAGE Learning, 9th Edition.
2. Advanced Engineering Mathematics by Erwin Kreyszig, Wiley, INC,
10th Edition.
Reference Books:
1. Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists
by S.M. Ross, Elsevier/AP, 6th Edition.
2. Introduction to Probability and Statistics by J.S. Milton & J.C. Arnold,
McGraw Hill, 4th Edition.
3. Introduction to Probability Theory and Statistical Inference by H.J.
Larson, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 3rd Edition.
4. Fundamental of Mathematical Statistics by S.C. Gupta & V.K.Kapoor, S.
Chand, 12th Edition.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 109

Course Title Discrete Structures
Course Code (Credit) MA21002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
The main objective of this course is to provide mathematical concepts and
build up strong mathematical fundamentals to support many subjects of
computer science engineering such as design and analysis of algorithms,
computability theory, software engineering, computer systems, syntactical
analysis, information organization and retrieval, switching theory, computer
representation of discrete structures and programming languages etc.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Logic:
Proposition, Truth values, Connectives, Logical equivalence of composite
statement (using truth table & without truth table), Predicates and
Quantifiers, Rules of Inference, Methods of Induction.
UNIT II
Set, Relation & Function:
Set, Operations on set, Principles of Inclusion and Exclusion, Relation, Types
of relations, Properties on Binary Relation, Equivalence relation, partial
ordering relation, Hasse diagram, Lattice, Definition of function, Injection,
Bijection, Surjection, Permutation function.
UNIT III
Recurrence Relation and their solutions:
Principles of counting, Discrete numeric function and their manipulation,
Generating Function, Concept of Recurrence Relation with constant
coefficients, Solution of Recurrence Relations (Substitution and generating
function methods).
UNIT IV
Groups and Rings:
Concept of binary operations, Algebraic structures, Semigroup, monoid,
Group, Abelian group with examples. Properties of groups, Cyclic groups and
its generator, Sub group, cosets, Normal subgroup, Lagrange’s Theorem,
Homomorphism and Isomorphism, ring, field, Integral domain (Definition with
examples)
UNIT V
Graph Theory:
Basic Terminology, Adjacency & Incident Matrix, graph Isomorphic Test,
Paths, Circuit, Eulerian path and Eulerian Circuit, Hamiltonian path and
circuit, shortest path Algorithms (Dijkstra),Tree, Rooted Tree, Binary Tree,
spanning tree, Minimal Spanning Tree (MST) Algorithms(Prim’s& Kruskal’s
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 110

Algorithms), Planar and Nonplanar Graphs.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1. Convert sentences in natural language into mathematical statements
and understand predicate and quantifiers, rules of inference and prove
results by principle of mathematical induction.
CO2. Understand the principles of inclusion and exclusion of sets, concept of
relations and functions and solve related problems.
CO3. Know the concepts of partition of sets, partial ordering relation, Hasse
diagram and Lattice.
CO4.Solve problems on recurrence relations by substitution and method of
generating functions and know a powerful method of counting
CO5. Understand the concept of algebraic structures, groups, semi group,
subgroups and Lagrange theorem. Gets the idea of homomorphism and
isomorphism of groups, definition and examples of ring, integral domain
and field.
CO6. Apply Graph theory in related areas like Syntactic analysis, Fault
detection and diagnosis in computers, Scheduling problems and
Minimal-path problems, network flow problems.
Textbooks:
1. Discrete Mathematics and its Applications by Kenneth H Rosen (Mc
Graw Hill 7th Edition)
Reference Books:
1. Elements of Discrete Mathematics. A Computer oriented approach
by C.L Liu, D.P. Mohapatra (Tata Mc Graw Hill 4th Edition-2013)
2. Discrete Mathematics by Sudarsan Nanda, Allied Publisher Pvt. Ltd.,
2022
3. Introduction to Graph Theory by Douglas B. West, Pearson, 2nd
Edition, 2002
4. Discrete Mathematics by Iyeger et al., Vikas Publishing House
Pvt.Ltd., 2020
Course Title Data Structures
Course Code (Credit) CS21001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
 To find the Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
 To understand the various techniques of sorting and searching
 To design and implement arrays, stacks, queues, and linked lists
 To understand the complex data structures such as trees and graphs
 To solve real life problems
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 111

Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Development of Algorithms, Notations and analysis, Storage structures for
arrays, Sparse matrices, Stacks and Queues: Representations and
applications.
UNIT II
Linked List, Stacks, and Queues:
Linked Lists, Linked stacks and queues, Operations on polynomials, Doubly
linked lists, Circularly linked lists, Dynamic storage management, Garbage
collection and compaction.
UNIT III
Trees:
Tree representation, Binary Trees, Binary search trees, Tree traversal,
Expression manipulation, Symbol table construction, Height balanced trees,
AVL trees.
UNIT IV
Graphs:
Graphs, Representation of graphs, BFS, DFS, Topological sort, String
representation and manipulations, Pattern matching.
UNIT V
Sorting and Searching:
Sorting Techniques: Selection, Bubble, Insertion, Merge, Heap, Quick, Radix
sort, Linear search, Binary search, Hash table methods.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use the concepts of data structure, data type and abstract data type to
develop solutions for engineering problems.
CO2: Develop programs to implement linear data structures such as stacks,
queues, linked lists, etc.
CO3: Apply the concept of trees and graph data structures in real world
scenarios
CO4: Comprehend the implementation of sorting and searching algorithms
CO5: Compare Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
CO6:Effectively choose the data structure that efficiently models the
information in a problem.
Textbooks:
1. Fundamentals of Data Structures in C by E. Horowitz, S. Sahani and S.
Anderson-Freed, Universities Press.
Reference Book:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 112

1. Sartaj Sahni, “Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++”,
Universities Press Pvt. Ltd., 2008.
Course Title Digital Systems Design
Course Code (Credit) EC20005 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-03)
Pre-requisites EC10001
Course Objectives:
 To understand the overview on the design principles of digital
computing systems
 To learn the Verilog modelling techniques
 To learn Boolean Algebra and Understand the various logic gates
 To be familiar with various combinational circuits
 To be familiar with designing synchronous and asynchronous
sequential circuits
 To be exposed to CMOS level gate design
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Basic VLSI System Design:
Introduction to digital systems and VLSI design, Moore’s Law, VLSI Design
flow, Design hierarchy, Introduction to Verilog HDL, operators and Modelling
techniques (gate-level, data-flow,and behavioral )
UNIT II
Binary Codes & Boolean Algebra:
Signed Binary numbers and its arithmetic (1’s and 2’s complement form),
Binary codes (Weighted and non-weighted codes, Gray codes, BCD codes),
Boolean Algebra-Laws and Axioms, SOP and POS (Min-term and Max-term),
K-Maps (2-,3-,4- variables with don’t care condition)
UNIT III
Combinational Circuits:
Adders (Half adder, Full adders, Binary Parrallel Adders), Subtractor (Half
Subtractor, Full Subtractor), Code conversion algorithms, Combined Adder-
Subtractor Block, Design of code converters, Decoders and Encoders,
Multiplexer and Demultiplexer. Implementation of Combinational Circuits
using Gate-level and Data-flow level of modelling.
UNIT IV
Sequential Circuits:
Basic latch, Flip-flops (SR, D, JK, T, Master-Slave), Triggering of flip-flops, FF
conversions, Shift Registers (SISO, SIPO, PISO, PIPO), Counter Design
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 113

(Synchronous and Asynchronous), Implementation of sequential circuits
using Behavioral level of modelling.
UNIT V
Advanced Concepts:
Overview of CMOS, CMOS level gate design (Basic and Universal gates),
Design of general Boolean circuits using CMOS gates, CMOS level design of
latches and flip-flops. Verilog description of CMOS level design.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Demonstrate the design principles of digital electronic and VLSI
systems
CO2: Apply the concept of different Verilog HDL models in realising various
digital circuits
CO3: Evaluate and simplify Boolean functions by using Boolean algebraic
methods like K-maps
CO4: Design and analyse different combinational circuits
CO5: Design and analyse different sequential circuits
CO6: Design and analyse CMOS-based combinational and sequential logic
circuits
Text Books
1. Morris Mano, and Michael D. Ciletti, “Digital Design”, Fifth Edition, PHI,
2012.
2. CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits – Sung-Mo Kang, Y. Leblebici, C. Kim,
TMH, 4th Edition, 2016
Reference Books
1. Anand Kumar, “Fundamentals of Digital Logic”, Fourth Edition, PHI,
2016.
2. Samir Palnitkar, “Verilog HDL”, Second Edition, Pearson Education,
2003.
Course Title Automata Theory and Formal Languages
Course Code (Credit) CS21003 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives
 To know about Chomsky hierarchy for organizing languages
 To introduce concepts in automata theory and theory of computation
 To identify different formal language classes and their relationships
 To design grammars and recognizers for different formal languages
 To understand undecidability and decide on languages that are
undecidable
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 114

Course Contents:
UNIT I
Finite Automata:
Alphabets, Strings and Languages, Automata and Grammars, Deterministic
Finite Automata (DFA), Formal Definition, Simplified notation: State
transition graph, Transition table. Language of DFA, Non-deterministic
Finite Automata (NFA), NFA with epsilon transition, Language of NFA,
Equivalence of NFA and DFA, Minimization of Finite Automata,
Distinguishing one string from other, Myhill Nerode Theorem.
UNIT II
Regular Expression (RE):
Definition, Operators of regular expression and their precedence, Algebraic
laws for Regular expressions, Kleen’s Theorem, Regular expression to FA,
DFA to Regular expression, Arden Theorem, Non Regular Languages,
Pumping Lemma for regular Languages. Application of Pumping Lemma,
Closure properties of Regular Languages, Decision properties of Regular
Languages, FA with output: Moore and Mealy machine, Equivalence of
Moore and Mealy Machine, Applications and Limitation of FA.
UNIT III
Context Free Grammar (CFG) and Context Free Languages:
Definition, Examples, Derivation, Derivation trees, Ambiguity in Grammar,
Inherent ambiguity, Ambiguous to Unambiguous CFG, Useless symbols,
Simplification of CFGs, Normal forms for CFGs: CNF and GNF, Closure
properties of CFLs, Decision Properties of CFLs: Emptiness, Finiteness and
Membership, Pumping lemma for CFLs.
UNIT IV
Push Down Automata (PDA):
Description and definition, Instantaneous Description, Language of PDA,
Acceptance by Final state, Acceptance by empty stack, Deterministic PDA,
Equivalence of acceptance by empty stack and final state, Conversion of
CFG to PDA and PDA to CFG.UNIT V
UNIT V
Turing Machines (TM) and Undecidability:
Basic model, definition and representation, Instantaneous Description,
Language acceptance by TM, Variants of Turing Machine, TM as Computer
of Integer functions, Universal TM, Church’s Thesis, Recursive and
recursively enumerable languages, Halting problem, Introduction to
Undecidability, Undecidable problems about TMs, Post correspondence
problem (PCP), Modified PCP and undecidable nature of post correspondence
problem, Introduction to recursive function theory.
Course Outcomes:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 115

Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Acquire a fundamental understanding of the core concepts in automata
theory and formal languages
CO2: Design finite automata or regular expression for any tokenization task
CO3: Construct a context free grammar for parsing any language
CO4: Design Turing machine for any language
CO5: Conclude the decidable / undecidable nature of any language
CO6: Apply mathematical and formal techniques for solving real-world problems
Textbooks:
1. John Hopcroft, Rajeev Motwani, and Jeffrey Ullman, “Introduction to
Automata Theory, Languages and Computation”, Third Edition, Pearson
Education, 2014.
Reference Books:
1. John Hopcroft, Jeffrey Ullman, “Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages and Computation”, Nineteenth Reprint, Narosa Publishing
House, 2002.
2. Martin J. C., “Introduction to Languages and Theory of Computations”,
Fourth Edition, TMH, 2010.
3. Peter Linz, “An Introduction to Formal Language and Automata”, Jones
and Bertlett, 2011.
4. Papadimitriou C., Lewis C. L., “Elements of the Theory of Computation”,
Pearson, 1997.
Course Title Operating Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS20002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To provide knowledge about the services rendered by operating systems
 To explore the various scheduling policies and to provide solutions for
critical section and deadlock problems
 To provide a detailed discussion of the various memory management
techniques
 To discuss the various file-system design and implementation issues
 To discuss how the protection domains, help to achieve security in a
system
 To explore the design and implementation issues of Distributed OS
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Need for Operating Systems, Computer Systems, OS Operations, Abstract
view of OS, Virtualization, Computing Environments, OS Services, OS
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 116

Structures, System Calls, Building and Booting OS, Process, Threads,
Multithreading.
UNIT II
Process Management:
Process Scheduling, Process Co-ordination, Synchronization, Semaphores,
Monitors, Hardware Synchronization, Deadlocks, Methods for Handling
Deadlocks.
UNIT III
Memory Management:
Memory Management Strategies, Contiguous and Non-Contiguous
allocation, Virtual memory Management, Demand Paging, Page Placement
and Replacement Policies.
UNIT IV
File Management:
File System, Basic concepts, File System design and Implementation, Case
Study: Linux File Systems, Mass Storage Structure, Disk Scheduling, Disk
Management, I/O Systems, System Protection and Security.
UNIT V
Distributed Systems:
Distributed Systems, Distributed operating systems, Distributed file
systems, Distributed Synchronization, OS architecture, Case study on
LINUX and Windows OS.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Distinguish between different types of modern operating systems,
virtual machines
CO2: Comprehend the techniques used to implement the process manager
CO3: Comprehend virtual memory abstractions in operating systems
CO4: Design and develop file system and I/O system
CO5: Apply various mechanisms in storage management
CO6: Design and develop OS modules for Distributed Environment
Textbooks:
1. Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne, “Operating System Concepts”, Tenth
Edition, Wiley, 2018.
Reference Books:
1. William Stallings, “Operating Systems: Internals and Design
Principles”, Ninth Edition, Pearson Publication.
2. Andrew S. Tanenbaum and Herbert Bos, “Modern Operating Systems”,
Fourth Edition, Pearson Publication.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 117

Course Title Object Oriented Programming using Java
Course Code (Credit) CS20004 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basic concepts of Object-Oriented Programming
 To nurture syntax and semantics of Java Programming language
 To write java programmes using basic concepts of OOP principles
 To be able to know multi tasking Java and multithreading techniques
 To understand Packages, Interfaces, and Exception Handling
Course Contents:
Unit I
Evolution of Programming Paradigm:
Procedure oriented programming vs Objects oriented programming, Object
oriented programming concepts: Object, Classes, Encapsulation and
abstraction, Inheritance, Polymorphism
Unit II
Java Overview:
JDK, JRE, Java Virtual Machine, Byte code, Java Characteristics, Data types,
Operators, Control statements, Class fundamentals, Objects, Methods,
Parameterized method, Use of static keyword, Input stream reader, Scanner
class,Command Line Argument,Constructors, Overloading, Array
Unit III
Inheritance:
Basics of Inheritance, Use of super and final keywords, Method overriding,
Abstract classes, Dynamic Method Dispatch, Defining and importing
packages, Access protection, Interfaces, Inner class
Exception handling: Exception fundamentals, Types, Understanding
different keywords (try, catch, finally, throw, throws), User defined exception
handling;
String Handling: Basics of String handling, String class, String Buffer class,
constructor and methods of both classes
Unit IV
Multithreading:
Basic thread concept, Life cycle of thread, Thread Model, Thread Priorities,
Synchronization, Thread Class and Runnable Interface, Inter Thread
Communication.
Input/Output:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 118

Stream classes, Byte stream, Character stream, Reading and writing from
console, Files, Reading and writing onto file using Byte stream and character
stream, Random Access File
Unit V
GUI Programming:
Introduction to Swing, Swing controls, Event handling: Delegation event
model, Event classes, Sources, Listeners, Adapter class.
JDBC: JDBC API, Comparison between JDBC & ODBC, Type of JDBC
Drivers, JDBC Architecture, JDBC classes and interfaces, Basic steps in
Developing JDBC Applications, Working with DataBase, Result Set, Statement
& Prepared Statement interfaces, Result Set MetaData
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Examine the basic concepts of Object-Oriented Programming
CO2: Perceive syntax and semantics of Java Programming language
CO3: Design Java application programs using basic concepts of OOP
principles, abstract classes, interfaces and packages
CO4: Develop robust and multi tasking Java programs using exception
handling and multithreading techniques
CO5: Design java programs using string classes and I/O operations,.
CO6: Design GUI applications using Swing and interactive application using
event handling and java database connectivity.
Textbooks:
1. Herbert Schildt, “Java-The Complete Reference”, Twelfth Edition,
McGraw Hill Education, 2021
Reference Books:
1. Herbert Schildt, “Java-The Complete Reference”, Twelfth Edition,
McGraw Hill Education, 2021
2. Y. Daniel Liang, “Introduction to JAVA Programming”, Tenth
Edition, Pearson Education, 2019
Course Title Database Management Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS20006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-3)
Course Objectives
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 119

 To learn data models, conceptualize and depict a database system using
ER diagram
 To understand the internal storage structures in a physical DB design
 To know the fundamental concepts of transaction processing techniques
 To understand the concept of Database Design in Normalization
techniques
 To know the manipulation of SQL Queries
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Purpose of Database System, Views of data, Data Models, Database
Languages, Database System Architecture, Components of DBMS, Entity,
Relationship model (E-R model ), E-R Diagram notation, EER notations,
Examples.
UNIT II
Relational Model:
Relational Data Model, Concept of relations, Schema-instance distinction,
keys, integrity rules, Relational algebra operators, SQL: Data definition, Data
manipulation, Aggregate function, Null Values, Nested sub queries, Joined
relations.
UNIT III
Database Design:
Dependencies and Normal forms, Dependency theory, Functional
dependencies, Armstrong's axioms for FD's, Closure of a set of FD's,
minimal covers, Definitions of 1NF, 2NF, 3NF and BCNF, 4NF, 5NF,
Decompositions and desirable properties of them.
UNIT IV
Transaction Management:
ACID properties, Serializability and concurrency control, Lock based
concurrency control (2PL), Timestamp ordering protocol, Database recovery
management.
UNIT V
Implementation Techniques:
Overview of Physical Storage Media, Magnetic Disks, RAID, Tertiary storage,
Organization of Records in Files, Indexing and Hashing, Ordered Indices,
primary, Secondary index structures.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Install, configure, and interact with a relational database management
system
CO2: Conceptualize and depict a database system using ER diagram.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 120

CO3: Master the basics of SQL and construct queries using SQL
CO4: Design and develop a large database with optimal query processing
CO5: Develop efficient storage scheme of saving and retrieving Records and
Files
CO6: Design the database with normalization techniques
Textbooks:
1. Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth, S. Sudharshan, “Database System
Concepts”, Seventh Edition, McGraw Hill, 2006.
2. C. J. Date, A. Kannan, S. Swamynathan, “An Introduction to
Database Systems”, Eighth Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.
Reference Books:
1. Ramez Elmasri, Shamkant B. Navathe, “Fundamentals of Database
Systems”, Seventh Edition, Pearson, 2007.
Course Title Computer Organization and Architecture
Course Code (Credit) CS21002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basic hardware and software issues of computer
organization
 To understand how computations are performed at machine level
 To understand how data storage is happening at machine level
 To understand the memory hierarchies, cache memories and virtual
memories
 To learn the different ways of communication with I/O devices
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Basic Structure of Computers:
Computer Types, Functional Units, Basic Operational Concepts, Bus
Structures, Machine Instructions and Programs: Memory Locations and
Addresses, Memory Operations, Encoding of Machine Instructions,
Addressing Modes, Instruction Types, Instruction Format, Instruction
Length, Assembly Language, Subroutines, Additional Instructions, RISC vs
CISC.
UNIT II
Basic Processing Unit:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 121

Fundamental Concepts, Execution of a Complete Instruction, Single and
Multiple Bus CPU Organization, Hard-wired Control, Micro programmed
Control unit.
UNIT III
Memory System:
Basic Concepts, Semiconductor RAM Memories, Read Only Memories, Speed,
Size, and Cost, memory module design, Memory Hierarchy, Cache Memories,
Mapping Functions, Replacement Algorithms, Memory Performance
Considerations, Memory interleaving, Virtual Memories.
UNIT IV
Arithmetic:
Design of fast adders, Multiplication of Positive Numbers, Signed Operand
Multiplication, Fast Multiplication, Integer Division, Floating-point Numbers
and Operations.
UNIT V
Input/ Output Organization:
Accessing I/O Devices, Modes of I/O Transfer, Program Controlled I/O,
Interrupts – Interrupt Hardware, Enabling and Disabling Interrupts,
Handling Multiple Devices, Controlling Device Requests, Exceptions, Direct
Memory Access.
UNIT VI
Case Study:
IA-32 Register Structure, IA-32 Addressing Modes, IA-32 Instructions,
Machine Instruction Format, IA-32 Assembly Language, Program Flow
Control, Logic and Shift/Rotate Instructions, Subroutines for IA-32,
Programming examples.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Perceive the functions of hardware components of computer and its
requirements for the execution of instructions.
CO2: Choose Instruction Set Architecture (ISA): Instruction format, types,
and various addressing modes.
CO3: Apply the basic components to design the CPU: the ALU and control
unit.
CO4: Assess the different levels of memory organization: SRAM, DRAM,
Cache memory, Virtual Memory.
CO5: Design the ALU and it's operations: Addition, Subtraction,
Multiplication, and Division.
CO6: Classify and compare the I/O Organization and types of I/O Transfer.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 122

Textbooks:
1. Computer Organization and Embedded Systems by Carl Hamacher,
Zvonko Vranesic, Safwat Zaky, 6th Edition, MGH, 2022.
Reference Books:
1. M. Morris Mano, Computer System Architecture, Pearson
Education India, 3rd Edition
2. William Stallings, Computer Organization & Architecture, 11th
Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.
Course Title Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Course Code (Credit) CS30001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21001
Course Objectives:
 To understand the importance of algorithm
 To analyze the complexity of an algorithm in terms of time and space
complexities
 To understand various problem solving techniques
 To learn about amortized analysis of algorithms
 To design and implement various programming paradigms and its
complexity
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Concepts in algorithm analysis & design motivation, Space and Time
Complexity of algorithm, Asymptotic Notations (Big Oh, Omega, Theta),
Analysis of time complexity of Insertion Sort by step count method, Solving
recurrences using Iterative, Substitution, Recurrence Tree, Master theorem
UNIT II
Divide & Conquer and Greedy Approaches:
Divide and Conquer method, Greedy method, Huffman code, Minimum
spanning trees, Dijkstra algorithm, Knapsack problem, Job sequencing with
deadlines.
UNIT III
Dynamic Programming Approaches:
Dynamic Programming, Knapsack problem, Matrix Chain Multiplication,
longest common subsequence Multistage graphs, All pair’s shortest paths,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 123

Optimal binary search trees, Travelling salesman problem.
UNIT IV
Amortization:
Randomized Algorithms and Amortized Analysis, Las Vegas and Monte Carlo
types, Randomized quick sort and its analysis, Min-Cut algorithm.
UNIT V
NP Problems:
NP-Hard and NP-complete problems, Basic concepts, Reducibility, Vertex
cover, 3CNF_SAT, clique, Hamiltonian cycle, TSP, Approximation algorithms,
Vertex cover, TSP.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Analyze the time and space complexity for any algorithm
CO2: Compare and contrast different algorithm techniques
CO3: Apply the design techniques of algorithm in solving real world problems
CO4: Perform amortize analysis for any algorithm
CO5: Modify existing algorithms to apply in common engineering design
situations
CO6: Use NP class of problems to propose approximation algorithms
Textbooks:
1. T. Cormen, C. Lieserson, R. Rivest, C. Stein, “Introductions to
Algorithms”, Third Edition, Prentice- Hall/India, 2009.
Reference Books:
1. A. M. Tenenbaum, Y. Langsam, M. J. Augestien, “Data Structures using
C”, First Edition, Pearson Education, 2007.
2. E. Harowitz, S. Sahni, S. Rajsekaran, “Fundamentals of Computer
Algorithms”, Universities press.
Course Title Software Engineering
Course Code (Credit) CS31001(L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the Software Engineering Practice
 To understand the Software Engineering Process Models
 To understand Design Engineering, Web applications
 To gain knowledge of the software testing
 To understand Software Project Management
Course Contents:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 124

UNIT I
Introduction:
Role of Software Engineer, Software Components, Software Characteristics,
Software Crisis, Software Engineering Processes, Similarity and Differences
from Conventional Engineering Processes, Quality Attributes.
Assessment:
How Software Engineering Changes? Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
Models: Water Fall Model, Prototype Model, Spiral Model, Evolutionary
Development Models, Iterative Enhancement Models, Choosing a social
relevant problem, Summary Team Report.
UNIT II
Requirement Engineering Process:
Elicitation, Analysis, Documentation, Review and Management of User Needs,
Feasibility Study, Information Modeling, Data Flow Diagrams, Entity
Relationship Diagrams, Designing the architecture.
Assessment: Impact of Requirement Engineering in their problem, Decision
Tables, SRS Document, IEEE Standards for SRS, Architectural design,
component level design, user interface design, WebApp Design, Submission of
SRS Document for Team Project.
UNIT III
Quality concepts, Review techniques, Software Quality Assurance (SQA):
Verification and Validation, SQA Plans, Software Quality Frameworks.
Assessment: Framing SQA Plan, ISO 9000 Models, SEI-CMM Model and their
relevance to project Management, Other emerging models like People CMM.
UNIT IV
Testing Objectives, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Acceptance Testing,
Regression Testing, Testing for Functionality and Testing for Performance,
Top-Down and Bottom-Up Testing, Software Testing Strategies, Strategies:
Test Drivers and Test Stubs, Structural Testing (White Box Testing),
Functional Testing (Black Box Testing), Testing conventional applications,
object oriented applications, Web applications, Formal modeling and
verification, Software configuration management, Product metrics.
Assessment: Team Analysis in Metrics Calculation.
UNIT V:
Project Management Concepts, Process and Project Metrics, Estimation for
Software projects, Project Scheduling, Risk Management, Maintenance and
Re-engineering. Assessment: Preparation of Risk mitigation plan.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify appropriate software process models for developing real life
projects
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 125

CO2: Assess each module given the overall Software engineering practice
CO3: Enhance the software project management skills
CO4: Comprehend the systematic methodologies involved in SE
CO5: Work ethically in a team as well as independently on software projects
and adapt to the ever changing dynamic real world situations.
CO6:Design and develop a software product in accordance with SE principles
Textbooks:
1. R. S. Pressman, “Software Engineering: A Practitioners Approach”, Eighth
Edition, McGraw Hill, 2010.
2. Rajib Mall, “Fundamentals of Software Engineering”, Fifth Edition, PHI
Publication, 2009.
3. Pankaj Jalote, “Software Project Management in Practice”, Pearson
Education, New Delhi, 2002.
Course Title Computer Networks
Course Code (Credit) CS30003 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To provide insight about fundamental concepts and reference models
(OSI and TCP/IP) and its functionalists
 To gain comprehensive knowledge about the principles, protocols,
and significance of Layers in OSI and TCP/IP
 To know the implementation of various protocols and cryptography
techniques
 Learn the flow control and congestion control algorithms
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Data Communications:
Data Transmission, Multiplexing, Data Encoding Techniques, Introduction to
computer networks, Network, Topologies, Reference Models: ISO/OSI Model
and TCP/IP Model.
UNIT II
Physical Layer:
Transmission Media, Analog signals, Digital Signals, Data Link Layer, Error
Detection and Correction, Parity, LRC, CRC, Hamming Code, Flow Control
and Error Control, Stop and wait, ARQ, Sliding window – IEEE, Ethernet.
UNIT III
Network Layer:
Packet Switching and Circuit Switching, IP addressing methods, Subnetting,
Supernetting, Routing Protocols: IP, ARP, RARP, DHCP, Routing Algorithms:
Distance Vector Routing, Link State Routing.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 126

UNIT IV
Transport Layer:
Transport Services, UDP, TCP, Congestion Control, Quality of Services (QOS).
UNIT V
Application Layer:
Domain Name Space (DNS), Electronic Mail, HTTP, WWW.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use of different models for study of computer networks
CO2: Identify the components required to build different types of networks
CO3: Choose the required functionality at each layer for given application
CO4: Identify solution for each functionality at each layer
CO5: Trace the flow of information from one node to another node in the
network
CO6: Build networking solutions using the concepts of world wide web and
electronic mail technologies
Textbooks:
1. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, David J. Wetherall, “Computer Networks”, Sixth
Edition, Pearson Publication, 2011.
Reference Books:
1. W. Stallings, “Data and Computer Communication”, Tenth Edition,
Pearson Education, 2018.
2. Larry L. Peterson, Bruce S. Davie, “Computer Networks: A Systems
Approach”, Sixth Edition, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2011.
3. Nader. F. Mir, “Computer and Communication Networks”, First Edition,
Pearson Publishers, 2007.
Course Title Machine Learning
Course Code (Credit) CS31002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
 To provide a broad survey of different machine learning approaches and
techniques
 To understand the principles and concepts of machine learning
 To understand neural networks concepts
 To learn regression and reinforcement learning
 To develop programming skills that helps to build real world
applications based on machine learning
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 127

Introduction: Machine learning: What and why? Types of Machine Learning,
Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning, The Curse of dimensionality,
Over and under fitting, Model selection, Error analysis and validation,
Parametric vs. non-parametric models.
UNIT II
Machine Learning:
Types of Machine Learning, Supervised Learning, Classification models, Naïve
Bayes Classifier, Decision trees, Support Vector Machines, KNN model,
Dimensionality reduction, PCA.
UNIT III
Clustering:
Clustering approaches, Mean Shift clustering, Clustering data points and
features, Bi-clustering, Multi-view clustering, K-Means clustering, K-medians
clustering, Expectation Maximization (EM).
UNIT IV
Neural Networks:
Neural networks, Biological motivation for Neural Network, Neural network
Representation, Perceptron, Feed forward networks, Multilayer Networks and
Back Propagation Algorithms, Hidden layer representation, Application of
neural network.
UNIT V
Applications and Tools:
Linear models for regression, Reinforcement Learning, Machine Learning
Tools, Engineering applications.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Solve typical machine learning problems
CO2: Compare and contrast different data representation to facilitate
learning
CO3: Apply the concept of regression methods, classification methods and
clustering methods.
CO4: Suggest supervised /unsupervised machine learning approaches for
any application
CO5: Implement algorithms using machine learning tools
CO6: Design and implement various machine learning algorithms in a
range of real-world applications.
Textbooks:
1. Kevin P. Murphy, “Probabilistic Machine Learning”, The MIT Press,
2023.
2. Ethem Alpaydin, “Introduction to Machine Learning”, Fourth Edition,
MIT Press, 2010.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 128

Reference Books:
1. Laurene Fausett, “Fundamentals of Neural Networks, Architectures,
Algorithms and Applications”, Pearson Education, 2008.
2. C. M. Bishop, “Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning”, Springer,
2007.
3. Simon Haykin, “Neural Networks and Learning Machines”, Pearson
2008.
Course Title Artificial Intelligence
Course Code (Credit) CS30002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS30001
Course Objectives:
 To understand the various characteristics of Intelligent agents
 To learn the different search strategies in AI
 To learn to represent knowledge in solving AI problems
 To understand the ways of planning and acting in the real world
 To know about the models behind the AI application
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Introduction, Definition, Future of Artificial Intelligence, Characteristics of
Intelligent Agents, Typical Intelligent Agents, Problem Solving Approach to
Typical AI problems.
UNIT II
Problem Solving Methods:
Problem solving Methods, Search Strategies, Uninformed, Informed,
Heuristics, Local Search Algorithms and Optimization Problems, Searching
with Partial Observations, Backtracking Search, Performance of search
algorithms.
UNIT III
Knowledge Representation:
First Order Predicate Logic, Unification, Forward Chaining, Backward
Chaining, Resolution, Knowledge Representation using First order Predicate
logic, Reasoning Systems.
UNIT IV
Planning:
Planning with state-space search, Partial-order planning, Planning graphs,
planning and acting in the real world, Plan generation systems.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 129

UNIT V
Uncertain Knowledge and Reasoning:
Uncertainty, Review of probability, Probabilistic Reasoning, Bayesian
networks, Inferences in Bayesian networks, Temporal models, Hidden Markov
models.
Course Outcomes:
CO1: Discover the concepts, applications, and the theory underlying AI.
CO2: Identify problems that are amenably solved by AI methods
CO3: Analyze the issues of knowledge representation and search techniques.
CO4: Analyze the engineering issues underlying the design of AI systems.
CO5: Discuss the uncertain knowledge on reasoning concepts in AI.
CO6: Apply AI techniques to develop programs to solve real life problems in
different domains.
Textbooks:
1. Stuart Russel, Peter. Norvig, “Artificial Intelligence – A Modern
Approach”, Fourth Edition, Pearson Education, 2022
Reference Books:
1. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence and Expert Systems, Dan W.
Patterson, Pearson Education.
Course Title High Performance Computing
Course Code (Credit) CS30005 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concept of advanced pipelining techniques
 To understand the current state of art in memory system design
 To know the working principle of I/O devices
 To understand the memory management techniques
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
Introduction, Classes of computers, Defining Computer Architecture,
Trends in Technology, Trends in Power and Energy in Integrated Circuits,
Trends in Cost, Dependability, Measuring, Reporting and Summarizing
Performance, Quantitative Principles of Computer Design
UNIT II:
Basic and Intermediate pipelining Concepts, The Major Hurdle of Pipelining,
Pipeline Hazards, Pipelining Implementation, Implementation issues that
makes Pipelining hard, Extending the MIPS Pipeline to Handle Multicycle
Operations, The MIPS R4000 Pipeline.
UNIT III:
Instruction, Level Parallelism: Concepts and Challenges, Basic Compiler
Techniques for Exposing ILP, Reducing Branch Costs with Prediction,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 130

Overcoming Data Hazards with Dynamic Scheduling, Dynamic Scheduling,
Hardware, Based Speculation, Exploiting ILP Using Multiple Issue and
Static Scheduling, Exploiting ILP, Advanced Techniques for Instruction
Delivery and Speculation, Studies of the Limitations of ILP.
UNIT IV:
Vector Architecture, SIMD Instruction Set Extensions for Multimedia,
Graphics Processing Units, Detecting and Enhancing Loop-Level Parallelism,
Centralized Shared-Memory Architectures, Performance of Shared-Memory
Multiprocessors, Distributed Shared Memory, Models of Memory
Consistency, Multicore Processors and their Performance.
UNIT V:
Review of Memory Hierarchy Design, Cache Performance, Basic Cache
Optimizations, Virtual Memory, Protection and Examples of Virtual Memory,
Advanced Optimizations of Cache Performance, Memory Technology and
Optimizations, Protection: Virtual Memory and Virtual Machines,
Crosscutting Issues: The Design of Memory Hierarchies, Case Studies / Lab
Exercises.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Choose performance metrics to find the performance of systems
CO2 : Identify the program block that requires parallelism for any program
CO3: Comprehend the concept of different types of hazards along with
theistructural implementation and applications.
CO4: Elaborate the criteria to enhance the performance of the pipelined
processors.
CO5: Design algorithms for memory management techniques for
multiprocessor system
CO6: Identify various parallel architecture like centralized anddistributed
memory architecture require for real life application
Textbooks:
1. David. A. Patterson, John L. Hennessy, “Computer Architecture: A
Quantitative approach”, Sixth Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2012.
Reference Books:
1. Carl Hamacher, Zvonko Vranesic, Safwat Zaky, Naraig Manjikian,
“Computer Organization and Embedded Systems”, Sixth Edition,
McGraw Hill Inc, 2022.
2. William Stallings “Computer Organization and Architecture”, Eleventh
Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 131

Course Title ARM and Advanced Microprocessors
Course Code (Credit) EC30007 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to teach the higher-level concepts of Advanced
Microprocessors (like 80286, 80386 and Pentium) and ARM to the students. The
students learn about Multitasking, Virtual memory, Memory management, Paging,
TLB, RISC features, Pipelining and Branch Prediction like concepts. They develop
skills for writing programs on ARM to solve simple problems as well as some real
time applications.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Overview of Intel higher level Processors, Concept of Multitasking, Virtual
memory & Memory management.
UNIT II
Intel 80286 & 80386:
Brief outline of Processor Architecture, Mode of operation, Segment
descriptor, Privilege level & protection and Task switching in 80286, Virtual
86 mode, Paging and TLB in 80386
UNIT III
Pentium Processor:
Features of RISC processors & Implementation of RISC features in Pentium,
Pipelining, Superscalar execution & Branch prediction Technique
UNIT IV
ARM & Interfacing:
ARM design, ARM Processor fundamentals: Registers, CPSR, Memory map,
Pipelines, Exceptions, Interrupt Vector Table, Introduction to ARM Instruction
set and Thumb instructions, Interfacing – LCD, ADC, DAC, Stepper motor,
UART.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1:Understand the concepts implemented in higher level Processors like
Multitasking, Virtual Memory, and Memory Management etc.
CO2: Examine the mode of Operation of 80286, Concept of program invisible
registers, Segment Descriptors etc.
CO3: Analyze Segment Descriptors, Privilege level and Protection, Virtual '86
Mode and Paging in 80386, enhanced features incorporated in 80486
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 132

CO4: Analyze the RISC features implemented in the design of Pentium
Processors, Parallel processing through U & V Pipelines / Superscalar
Execution and Branch Prediction Techniques
CO5: Acquire the knowledge of a 32-bit ARM Processor, its RISC features,
Registers, Pipelining and Interrupts
CO6: Examine the 32-bit ARM instruction set, 16-bit Thumb instructions and
Interfacing
Textbooks:
1. Advanced Microprocessor and Peripherals - Architecture, Programming
and Interfacing by A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi - McGraw Hill
Eduction Pvt Ltd - 3rd Edition
2. ARM Assembly Language Programming & Architecture - M A Mazidi &
others, Micro Digital Ed, ISBN: 9780997925906.
Reference Books:
1. The Intel Microprocessors 8086/8088, 80186/80188, 80386, 80486,
Pentium and Pentium Pro - Processor by B. B. Brey - PHI - 8th Edition
2. Microprocessors & Interfacing, Programming & Hardware by D. V. Hall -
TMH - 3rd Edition.
3. ARM Assembly Language: Fundamentals and Techniques by William
Hohl
4. ARM System Developers Guide Design & Optimizing System Software –
Andrew N. Sloss & others - Elsevier.
Course Title Multi-Core Programming
Course Code (Credit) CS30007 / L- T- P-Cr: 3-0-0-3
Pre-requisites CS21002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the fundamentals of multi-core architecture
 To be able to know the basic concepts of multi core programming
using threads
 To be able to understand various programming constructs in multi-
core architecture
 To be able to understand Multithreaded applications
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Multiprocessors and Scalability Issues:
Scalable design principles, Principles of processor design, Instruction Level
Parallelism, Thread level parallelism, Parallel computer models, Symmetric
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 133

and distributed shared memory architectures, Performance Issues, Multi-
core Architectures, Software and hardware multithreading, SMT and CMP
architectures, Design issues, Case studies, Intel Multi-core architecture,
SUN CMP architecture.
UNIT II
Parallel Programming:
Fundamental concepts, Designing for threads, scheduling, Threading and
parallel programming constructs, Synchronization, Critical sections,
Deadlock, Threading APIs.
UNIT III
OpenMP Programming:
OpenMP, Threading a loop, Thread overheads, Performance issues, Library
functions, Solutions to parallel programming problems, Data races,
deadlocks and livelocks, Non-blocking algorithms, Memory and cache related
issues.
UNIT IV
MPI Programming:
MPI Model, Collective communication, Data decomposition, Communicators
and topologies, Point-to-point communication, MPI Library.
UNIT V
Multi Threaded Application Development:
Algorithms, Program development and performance tuning
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Assess the fundamentals of multi-core architecture
CO2: Comprehend the programming constructs of multi-core systems
CO3: Exploit the benefit of parallel programming
CO4: Identify problems of concurrency for parallel programming
CO5: Design and develop OpenMP Programming
CO6: Design and develop APIs for Multithreaded Applications
Textbooks:
1. Michael J Quinn, “Parallel programming in C with MPI and OpenMP”,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2003. (Not Available with the Publisher’s Site)
Reference Books:
1. John L. Hennessey, David A. Patterson, “Computer Architecture – A
Quantitative Approach”, Sixth Edition, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers,
2007
2. David E. Culler, Jaswinder Pal Singh, “Parallel Computing Architecture: A
Hardware/Software Approach”, Morgan Kaufmann/Elsevier Publishers,
1999.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 134

Course Title Distributed Operating Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS30009 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the fundamentals of distributed system
 To be able to know the basic concepts of shared memory architecture
 To be able to understand various implementation difficulties of
distributed operating systems
 To be able to understand transparency in distributed operating
systems
Course Contents:
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of Distributed Systems:
Introduction to distributed systems, Goals of Distributed Systems, Hardware
Concepts, Software Concepts, Design Issues, Network Operating Systems,
True Distributed System and Time sharing Multiprocessor Operating System,
System Architectures.
UNIT-II
Communication in Distributed Systems:
Basics of Communication Systems, Layered Protocols, ATM Models, Client
Server Model, Blocking Primitives and Non Blocking Primitives, Buffered
Primitives and Unbuffered Primitives, Reliable and Unreliable primitives,
Message Passing, Remote Procedure Call.
UNIT-III
Synchronization and Processes:
Clock Synchronization, Mutual Exclusion, Election Algorithm, Atomic
Transactions, Deadlock in Distributed Systems, Process and Threads, System
Models, Processor Allocation, Process Scheduling.
UNIT-IV
Consistency, Replication and Fault Tolerance:
Data Centric Consistency Models, Client-Centric Consistency Models, Replica
Management, Consistency protocols, Fault Tolerance, Process Resilience,
Distributed Commit, Reliable Client Server Communication, Reliable Client
Server Communication.
UNIT-V
Overview of shared memory:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 135

Architecture, Algorithm, Protocols, Design Issues, consistency model, Page
based Distributed Shared Memory, Shared variable Distributed shared
Memory, and Object based Distributed Shared Memory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Assess the concept of Distributed Operating Systems
CO2: Enlist the communication techniques in Distributed Operating
Systems
CO3: Determine the clock synchronous concepts and algorithms
CO4: Examine the distributed system that fulfills requirements with
regards to key distributed systems properties
CO5: Discuss distributed shared memory architectures and algorithms
CO6: Analyze the distributed files systems
Textbooks:
1. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, “Distributed Operating Systems”, Pearson
Education, 1995.
Reference Books:
1. G. Coulouris, J. Dollimore, and T. Kindberg, “Distributed Systems:
Concepts & Design”, Pearson Publication, 4th Edition,2005.
2. Pradeep K. Sinha, “Distributed Operating Systems Concepts and
Design”, PHI, 1998.
Course Title Computational Intelligence
Course Code (Credit) CS30011 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basic concepts and characteristics of soft computing
 To understand and analyse fuzzy rules, fuzzy reasoning and various
fuzzy inference systems
 To be able to know derivative free optimization and apply genetic algorithms
to optimization problems
 To apply neural networks to various classification problems.
 To know some hybrid models such as adaptive Neuro-fuzzy inference
systems
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 136

Introduction, Soft Computing constituents and Conventional AI, Neuro-Fuzzy
and Soft Computing characteristics
UNIT II
Artificial Neural Networks:
Introduction to ANN, Perceptrons and MLP, Adaline and Madaline, Back-
propagation Multilayer Perceptrons (BPMLP), Radial Basis Function Networks
(RBF), Kohonen Self-Organizing Networks, Learning Vector Quantization,
Hebbian Learning, Hopfield networks
UNIT III
Fuzzy Set Theory:
Fuzzy sets, Basic Definition and Terminology, Set-theoretic Operations,
Member Function Formulation and Parameterization, More on Union,
Intersection and Complement, Extension Principle and Fuzzy Relations, Fuzzy
If-Then Rules, Fuzzy Reasoning, Fuzzy Inference Systems, Mamdani Fuzzy
Models, Sugeno Fuzzy Models, Tsukamoto Fuzzy Models, Adaptive Neuro-
Fuzzy Inference Systems(ANFIS), ANFIS Architecture, Hybrid Learning
Algorithm
UNIT IV
Particle Swarm Optimization:
PSO Model, Global Best, Local Best, Velocity Update Equations, Position
Update Equations, Velocity Clamping, Inertia Weight, Constriction
Coefficients, Synchronous and Asynchronous Updates, Binary PSO.
UNIT V
Differential Evolution:
DE as modified GA, generation of population, operators and their
implementation.
UNIT VI
Ant Colony Optimization:
Basic Concepts, Ant System, Application.
UNIT VII
Artificial Bee Colony:
Historical Development, Types of Bees and Their Role in the Optimization
Process.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 137

CO1: Identify the basic concepts and characteristics of soft computing and
also its associated methodologies.
CO2: Apply various set theoretic operations in fuzzy sets.
CO3: Analyze fuzzy rules, fuzzy reasoning and various fuzzy inference
systems.
CO4: Choose derivative free optimization and apply genetic algorithms to
optimization problems.
CO5: Assess concepts of artificial neural networks and apply neural networks
to various classification problems.
CO6: Analyze some hybrid models such as adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference
systems.
Textbooks:
1. Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing, Jang, Sun, Mizutani,
PearsonEducation
Reference Books:
1. Swarm Intelligence Algorithms: A Tutorial, Adam Slowik, Ed: CRC
Press, 2020
2. Neural Networks: A Comprehensive Foundation, Simon Haykin, Pearson
Education
3. Genetic Algorithms, David E. Goldberg, Pearson Publication, 2003
Course Title Compiler
Course Code (Credit) CM30006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21003
Course Objectives:
 To introduce the major concept areas in compiler design and know the
various phases of the compiler
 To understand the various parsing algorithms and comparison of the
same
 To provide practical programming skills necessary for designing a
compiler
 To gain knowledge about the various code generation principles
 To understand the necessity for code optimization
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Compilation:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 138

Compilers, Analysis of the source program, Phases of a compiler, Cousins of
the Compiler, Grouping of Phases, Compiler construction tools, Lexical
Analysis, Role of Lexical Analyzer, Input Buffering, Specification of Tokens.
Lab Component: Tutorial on LEX / FLEX tool, Tokenization exercises using
LEX.
UNIT II
Syntax Analysis:
Role of the parser, Writing Grammars, Context, Free Grammars, Top Down
parsing, Recursive Descent Parsing, Predictive Parsing, Bottom-up parsing,
Shift Reduce Parsing, Operator Precedent Parsing, LR Parsers, SLR Parser,
Canonical LR Parser, LALR Parser.
Lab Component: Tutorial on YACC tool, Parsing exercises using YACC tool.
UNIT III
Intermediate Code Generation:
Intermediate languages, Declarations, Assignment Statements, Boolean
Expressions, Case Statements, Back patching, Procedure calls.
Lab Component: A sample language like C-lite is to be chosen.
Intermediate code generation exercises for assignment statements, loops,
conditional statements using LEX/YACC.
UNIT IV
Code Optimization and Run Time Environments:
Introduction, Principal Sources of Optimization, Optimization of basic
Blocks, DAG representation of Basic Blocks, Introduction to Global Data
Flow Analysis, Runtime Environments, Source Language issues, Storage
Organization, Storage Allocation strategies, Access to non-local names,
Parameter Passing, Error detection and recovery.
Lab Component: Local optimization to be implemented using LEX/YACC
for the sample language.
UNIT V
Code Generation:
Issues in the design of code generator, The target machine, Runtime Storage
management, Basic Blocks and Flow Graphs, Next-use Information, A
simple Code generator, DAG based code generation, Peephole Optimization.
Lab Component: DAG construction, Simple Code Generator
implementation, DAG based code generation using LEX/YACC for the
sample language.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 139

CO1: Identify the phases of a compiler to translate from source code to
executable code
CO2: Apply the knowledge of LEX & YACC tool to develop a scanner and
parser
CO2: Design and develop software system for backend of the compiler
CO3: Suggest the necessity for appropriate code optimization techniques
CO4: Conclude the appropriate code generator algorithm for a given
source language
CO5: Identify the effectiveness of optimization and learn various machine
independent and machine dependent optimization techniques.
CO6: Design a compiler for any programming language
Textbooks:
1. Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D Ullman, “Compilers: Principles, Techniques
and Tools”, Pearson Education, 2012.
Reference Books:
1. Allen I. Holub, “Compiler Design in C”, Prentice Hall of India, 2003.
2. C. N. Fischer, R. J. LeBlanc, “Crafting a compiler with C”, Benjamin
Cummings, 2003.
3. Henk Alblas, Albert Nymeyer, “Practice and Principles of Compiler
Building with C”, PHI, 2001.
4. Kenneth C. Louden, “Compiler Construction: Principles and Practice”,
Thompson Learning, 2003.
Course Title Compiler
Course Code (Credit) CM30006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21003
Course Objectives:
 To introduce the major concept areas in compiler design and know the
various phases of the compiler
 To understand the various parsing algorithms and comparison of the
same
 To provide practical programming skills necessary for designing a
compiler
 To gain knowledge about the various code generation principles
 To understand the necessity for code optimization
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Compilation:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 140

Compilers, Analysis of the source program, Phases of a compiler, Cousins of
the Compiler, Grouping of Phases, Compiler construction tools, Lexical
Analysis, Role of Lexical Analyzer, Input Buffering, Specification of Tokens.
Lab Component: Tutorial on LEX / FLEX tool, Tokenization exercises using
LEX.
UNIT II
Syntax Analysis:
Role of the parser, Writing Grammars, Context, Free Grammars, Top Down
parsing, Recursive Descent Parsing, Predictive Parsing, Bottom-up parsing,
Shift Reduce Parsing, Operator Precedent Parsing, LR Parsers, SLR Parser,
Canonical LR Parser, LALR Parser.
Lab Component: Tutorial on YACC tool, Parsing exercises using YACC tool.
UNIT III
Intermediate Code Generation:
Intermediate languages, Declarations, Assignment Statements, Boolean
Expressions, Case Statements, Back patching, Procedure calls.
Lab Component: A sample language like C-lite is to be chosen.
Intermediate code generation exercises for assignment statements, loops,
conditional statements using LEX/YACC.
UNIT IV
Code Optimization and Run Time Environments:
Introduction, Principal Sources of Optimization, Optimization of basic
Blocks, DAG representation of Basic Blocks, Introduction to Global Data
Flow Analysis, Runtime Environments, Source Language issues, Storage
Organization, Storage Allocation strategies, Access to non-local names,
Parameter Passing, Error detection and recovery.
Lab Component: Local optimization to be implemented using LEX/YACC
for the sample language.
UNIT V
Code Generation:
Issues in the design of code generator, The target machine, Runtime Storage
management, Basic Blocks and Flow Graphs, Next-use Information, A
simple Code generator, DAG based code generation, Peephole Optimization.
Lab Component: DAG construction, Simple Code Generator
implementation, DAG based code generation using LEX/YACC for the
sample language.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 141

CO1: Identify the phases of a compiler to translate from source code to
executable code
CO2: Apply the knowledge of LEX & YACC tool to develop a scanner and
parser
CO2: Design and develop software system for backend of the compiler
CO3: Suggest the necessity for appropriate code optimization techniques
CO4: Conclude the appropriate code generator algorithm for a given
source language
CO5: Identify the effectiveness of optimization and learn various machine
independent and machine dependent optimization techniques.
CO6: Design a compiler for any programming language
Textbooks:
2. Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D Ullman, “Compilers: Principles, Techniques
and Tools”, Pearson Education, 2012.
Reference Books:
5. Allen I. Holub, “Compiler Design in C”, Prentice Hall of India, 2003.
6. C. N. Fischer, R. J. LeBlanc, “Crafting a compiler with C”, Benjamin
Cummings, 2003.
7. Henk Alblas, Albert Nymeyer, “Practice and Principles of Compiler
Building with C”, PHI, 2001.
8. Kenneth C. Louden, “Compiler Construction: Principles and Practice”,
Thompson Learning, 2003.
Course Title Data Mining and Data Warehousing
Course Code (Credit) CS30013 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20006
Course Objective:
 To understand the basic principles, concepts, applications of data
mining and data mining tools.
 To know the kinds of patterns discovered by association rule mining
algorithms
 To understand various classification and prediction algorithms
 To be able to apply data mining techniques on web, spatial, temporal,
text and multimedia data mining.
Course Content:
UNIT I
Introduction to Data Mining Systems:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 142

Knowledge Discovery Process, Data Mining Techniques, Issues, applications,
Data Objects and attribute types, Statistical description of data.
Data Preprocessing: Cleaning, Integration, Reduction, Transformation and
discretization, Data Visualization, Data similarity and dissimilarity measures
UNIT II
Data Warehousing and Online Analytical Processing:
Basic Concepts, Data Warehousing Architecture, Multidimensional Data
Model, Data Warehouse Schemas for Decision Support, Building a Data
Warehouse , Concept Hierarchies, Characteristics of OLAP Systems, Typical
OLAP Operations, OLAP and OLTP.
UNIT III
Frequent Pattern Analysis:
Mining Frequent Patterns, Market Basket Analysis: The Apriori Algorithm:
Finding Frequent Itemsets Using Candidate Generation, Generating
Association Rules from Frequent Itemsets, Improving the Efficiently of Apriori,
Mining Frequent Itemsets without Candidate Generation, Measuring the
Quality of Rules, Association Mining to Correlation Analysis.
UNIT IV
Classification and Prediction:
Issues Regarding Classification and Prediction, Classification by Decision Tree
Introduction, Naïve Bayesian Classification, Rule Based Classification,
Classification by Back propagation, Support Vector Machines, Lazy Learners,
Other Classification Methods, Prediction: Simple linear regression, Accuracy
and Error Measures, Evaluating the Accuracy of a Classifier or Predictor.
UNIT V
Clustering:
Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of Major Clustering
Methods, Partitioning Methods: K-Means, K-medoids, Hierarchical methods:
Agglomerative and Divisive Hierarchical Clustering, Density, Based Methods,
Grid-Based Methods, Model-Based Clustering Methods, Clustering High,
Dimensional Data.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Compile the basic principles, concepts, applications of data mining and
familiar with mathematical foundations of data mining tools.
CO2: Interpret the fundamental concepts, benefits, operations associated with
data warehousing and develop data warehousing models.
CO3: Evaluate the kinds of patterns discovered by association rule mining
algorithms.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 143

CO4: Analyze various classification and prediction algorithms for model
designing.
CO5: Apply various clustering algorithms to solve the real problems.
CO6: Adapt various data mining techniques on web, spatial, temporal, text
and multimedia data mining.
Textbooks:
1. J. Han and M. Kamber, “Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques”, 4th
Edition, Morgan Kaufman, 2015.
Reference Books:
1. M. H. Dunham, “Data Mining: Introductory and Advanced Topics”,
Pearson Education, 2006.
2. I. H. Witten and E. Frank, “Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning
Tools and Techniques,” Morgan Kaufmann, 2000.
3. D. Hand, H. Mannila and P. Smyth. Principles of Data Mining. The MIT
Press. 2001.
Course Title Image Processing and Applications
Course Code (Credit) CS30015 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objectives
 To learn the fundamentals of image processing and various
transformation applied in an image
 To learn image enhancement techniques
 To understand image restoration
 To impart knowledge on different compression techniques
 To discuss on image segmentation and feature representations
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Introduction to Digital Image Processing, Characteristics of Digital Image,
Basic relationship between pixels, Image sampling and quantization, Color
models, Basic Geometric Transformations, Fourier Transform, Cosine,
Sine and Hartley Transform, Hadamard-Haar-Slant Transform, Discrete
Fourier Transform.
UNIT II
Image Enhancement Techniques:
Spatial Domain Methods, Basic Grey Level Transformation, Histogram
Processing, Image subtraction, Im Agile Software Development age
averaging, Spatial filtering, Smoothing, Sharpening filters, Laplacian
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 144

filters, Frequency domain filters, Smoothing, Sharpening filters,
Homomorphic filtering.
UNIT III
Image Restoration:
Model of Image Degradation/restoration process, Noise models, Spatial
and Frequency Filters, Inverse filtering & Wiener Filtering, Least mean
square filtering, Constrained least mean square filtering.
UNIT IV
Image Compression Fundamentals:
Image Compression Models, Lossless compression: Variable length coding,
LZW coding, Bit plane coding, Predictive coding, DPCM, Lossy
Compression: Lossy Predictive Coding, Transform coding, Wavelet coding.
UNIT V
Image Segmentation & Analysis:
Image Segmentation techniques, Edge detection, Thresholding, Region,
Boundary Extraction & Representation, Region, Moment representation,
chain codes, Polygonal approximation, Texture, Pattern Recognition.
Applications, Finger print/iris recognition, Remote sensing, Automatic
character recognition, Medical image processing.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Compare various image enhancement techniques
CO2: Construct the image from the degraded image
CO3: Analyze and use appropriate image compression techniques
CO4: Suggest proper image feature for classification problems
CO5: Apply the theory and algorithms that are widely used in digital
image processing
CO5: Build image processing applications for real world problems
Textbooks:
1. Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E Woods, “Digital Image Processing”, Fourth
Edition, Pearson Education, 2018.
Reference Books:
1. A.K. Jain, “Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing”, PHI, New Delhi,
1995.
2. S E Umbaugh, “Digital Image Processing and Analysis: Application
with MATLAB and CVIP Tools”, Third Edition, Taylor & Francis, CRC
Press, 2018.
3. Frank Y. Shih, “Image Processing and Pattern Recognition”, Wiley –
IEEE Press, 2010.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 145

Course Title Cloud Computing
Course Code (Credit) CS30010 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20002
Course Objectives
 To provide an in-depth and comprehensive knowledge of the
deployment models in Cloud Computing
 To understand the enabling technologies needed for establishing cloud
environment
 To motivate students to do programming and experiment with the
various cloud computing environments
 To shed light on the cloud providers and software platforms
 To introduce about different programming models in cloud computing
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Evolution: Clustering, Grid computing, Virtualization, Basic concepts,
Benefits and Risks, Roles and Boundaries, Characteristics, XaaS based
service offerings, Basic Deployment models.
UNIT II
Enabling Technologies:
Networks: ISPs, Connectionless Packet Switching, Router-based
Interconnectivity, Technical and Business Considerations, Data Center:
Standardization and Modularity, Automation, Remote Operation, High
Availability, Hardware Virtualization: Hardware Independence, Server
Consolidation, Resource Replication, OS and hardware based
Virtualization, Web Technology, Multitenant Technology, Service
Technology.
UNIT III
Computing Mechanisms:
Infrastructure: Logical Network Perimeter, Virtual Server, Storage Device,
Usage Monitor, Resource Replication, Specialized: Automated Scaling
Listener, Load Balancer, Monitors, Failover System, Hypervisor, Resource
Cluster, Multi-Device Broker, State Management Database, Management:
Resource, SLA, Billing, Remote Administration, Security.
UNIT IV
Cloud Providers & Software Platforms:
Globally available public clouds (Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services,
Google Cloud Platform): Overview and Comparison, Instances, Images,
Networking and Security, Storage, Monitoring and Automation,
Introduction to Open-source softwares: Eucalyptus, Open Nebula, Open
Stack, Apache Cloud Stack.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 146

UNIT V
Programming Models & Advances:
Introduction to Map Reduce, Apache Spark, Tensor Flow, Inter cloud:
Architecture, Resource Provisioning, Billing, Security, Mobile Cloud
Computing: Resource Allocation, Security, Business Aspects, Application,
Future Scope, Introduction to Edge and Fog Computing.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Articulate the main concepts, key technologies, strengths, and
limitations of cloud computing and the possible applications for state-of-
the-art cloud computing
CO2: Compare the various cloud services and cloud platforms
CO3: Identify the architecture and infrastructure of cloud computing,
including SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, Public cloud, Private cloud, Hybrid cloud
CO4: Adopt suitable computing mechanisms for establishing a cloud
environment
CO5: Examine various cloud applications and issues.
CO6: Provide the appropriate cloud computing solutions and
recommendations according to the applications used
Textbooks:
1. Kai Hwang, Geoffrey C. Fox, and Jack J. Dongarra, “Distributed and
Cloud Computing from Parallel Processing to the Internet of Things”,
Morgan Kaufmann, Elsevier, 2012.
Reference Books:
1. Tim Mather, Subra Kumaraswamy, Shahed Latif, “Cloud Security and
Privacy: An Enterprise Perspective on Risks and Compliance”, O'Reilly,
2009.
Course Title Computer Vision
Course Code (Credit) CS30026 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS40007
Course Objective:
 To understand image formation and camera calibration
 To understand stereo vision and stereo camera geometry
 To be able to know structures from motions
 To know machine learning for computer vision
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Image formation and camera calibration:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 147

Introduction to computer vision, Geometric camera models, Orthographic and
perspective projections, Weak perspective projection, Intrinsic and extrinsic
camera parameters, Linear and nonlinear approaches of camera calibration.
UNIT II
Feature detection and matching:
Edge detection, Interest points and corners, Local image features, Feature
matching and Hough transform, Model fitting and RANSAC, Scale invariant
feature matching.
UNIT III
Stereo Vision:
Stereo camera geometry and epipolar constraints, Essential and fundamental
matrix, Image rectification, Local methods for stereo matching: Correlation
and multi-scale approaches, Global methods for stereo matching: Order
constraints and dynamic programming, Smoothness and graph-based energy
minimization, Optical flow.
UNIT IV
Shape from Shading:
Modeling pixel brightness, Reflection at surfaces, The Lambertian and
specular model, Area sources, Photometric stereo: Shape from multiple
shaded images, Modeling inter-reflection, Shape from one shaded image.
UNIT V:
Structure from motion:
Camera self-calibration, Euclidean structure and motion from two images,
Euclidean structure and motion from multiple images, Structure and motion
from weak-perspective and multiple cameras.
UNIT VI:
Machine Learning for Computer Vision:
Introduction to Machine Learning, Image Classification, Object Detection,
Semantic Segmentation, Case study on computer vision and machine learning
for applied research.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Categorizing of image formation and camera calibration
CO2: Apply the concepts of feature detection, Feature reduction, and matching.
CO3: Analyze the concepts of stereo vision and stereo camera geometry.
CO4: Design the concepts of generating shapes from shading.
CO5: Identifying the concepts of structures from motions.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 148

CO6: Determine the concepts of machine learning for computer vision for applied
research.
Textbooks:
1. Forsyth, D. A. and Ponce, J., "Computer Vision: A Modern Approach",
2nd Ed., Pearson Education.
Reference Books:
1. Hartley, R. and Zisserman, A., "Multiple View Geometry in Computer
Vision", Cambridge University Press.
Course Title Software Project Management
Course Code (Credit) CS30012 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS31001
Course Objectives:
 Recognize basic concepts and issues of software project management
 Emphasize successful software projects that support organization's
strategic goals
 Comprehend software quality issues
 Comprehend software risk issues
 Analyse SPM tools
Course Contents:
UNIT I
SPM Concepts:
Definition, Components of SPM, Challenges and opportunities, Tools and
techniques, Managing human resource and technical resource, Costing
and pricing of projects, Training and development, Project management
techniques.*
UNIT II
Software Measurements:
Monitoring & measurement of SW development, Cost, Size and time
metrics, Methods and tools for metrics, Issues of metrics in multiple
projects.*
UNIT III
Software Quality:
Quality in SW development, Quality assurance, Quality standards and
certifications, The process and issues in obtaining certifications, The
benefits and implications for the organization and its customers, Change
management.*
UNIT IV
Risk Issues:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 149

The risk issues in SW development and implementation, Identification of
risks, Resolving and avoiding risks, Tools and methods for identifying risk
management.*
UNIT V
SPM Tools:
Software project management using Primavera & Redmine, Case study on
SPM tools.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the job roles of an IT project manager to conduct project
planning activities
CO2: Plan to maintain and monitor software projects and processes
CO3: Design and develop project modules and assign resources
CO4: Comprehend, assess, and estimate the cost of risk involved in a
project management
CO5: Analyze the tools for risk management
CO6: Design a Case study using SPM tools
Textbooks:
1. Richard H. Thayer, “Software Engineering Project Management”,
Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons, 2001.
2. Royce, Walker, “Software Project Management”, First Edition, Pearson
Education, 1998.
Reference Books:
1. Kelker S. A., “Software Project Management”, Third Edition,PHI, 2003
2. Kan, Stephen H., “Metrics and Models in Software Quality
Engineering”, Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co. Inc., 2002.
3. Galin, Daniel, “Software Quality Assurance: From Theory to
Implementation”, Addison-Wesley, 2004.
Course Title Time Series Forecasting
Course Code (Credit) CS30014 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objective:
 To understand time series models
 To be able to know Stationary process and ARMA models
 To understand parallel programming models
 To understand forecasting algorithm
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 150

Introduction to time series forecasting:
Introduction: Examples of time series, Stationary models and auto correlation
function, Estimation and elimination of trend and seasonal components.
Stationary Process and ARMA Models: Basic properties and linear processes,
Introduction to ARMA models, Properties of sample mean and autocorrelation
function, Forecasting stationary time series, ARMA (p, q) processes, ACF and
PACF, Forecasting of ARMA processes.
UNIT II:
Spectral Analysis:
Spectral densities, Time-invariant linear filters, the spectral density of an
ARMA process. Modeling and Forecasting with ARMA Processes: Preliminary
estimation, Maximum likelihood estimation, Diagnostics, Forecasting, Order
selection.
UNIT III:
Non-stationary and Seasonal Time Series Models:
ARIMA models, Identification techniques, Unit roots in time series,
Forecasting ARIMA models, Seasonal ARIMA models, Regression with ARMA
errors.
UNIT IV:
Multivariate Time Series:
Second-order properties of multivariate time series, Estimation of the mean
and covariance, Multivariate ARMA processes, Best linear predictors of
second-order random vectors, Modeling and forecasting.
UNIT V:
State-Space Models:
State-space representations, The basic structure model, State-space
representation of ARIMA models, The Kalman Recursions, Estimation for
state-space models.
Forecasting Techniques: The ARAR algorithm, The Holt-Winter algorithm,
The Holt-Winter seasonal algorithm.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Determine and analyzing important time series models and their
applications in various fields.
CO2: Analyzing real life problems using Stationary process and ARMA models
CO3: Estimate the models from real data by using statistical software to and
draw conclusions and develop solutions.
CO4: Implementation of parallel systems to critically evaluate the strengths
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 151

and weaknesses of parallel programming models.
CO5: Implementation of the ARIMA model.
CO6: Discussing different forecasting algorithm to analyze larger and more
complex data.
Textbooks:
1. Brockwell, Peter J. and Davis, Richard A. (2002). Introduction to Time
Series and Forecasting, 3rd edition. Springer-Verlag, New York.
2. Box, G. E. P., Jenkins, G.M. and Reinsel, G. C. (1994). Time Series
Analysis: Forecasting and Control, Third Edition, Prentice Hall, New
Jersey.
Reference Books:
1. Box, G. E. P., Jenkins, G. M. and Reinsel, G.C. (1994). Time Series
Analysis: Forecasting and Control, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall, New
Jersey.
2. Chatfield, C. (1996). The Analysis of Time Series, 5th edition, Chapman
and Hall, New York.
3. Shumway, R.H., Stoffer, D.S. (2006). Time Series Analysis and Its
Applications (with R examples). Springer-Verlag, New York.
4. James D. Hamilton (1994). Time Series Analysis, 1st Edition, Princeton
University Press.
5. Galit Shmueli and Kenneth C. Lichtendahl Jr (2016). Practical Time
Series Forecasting with R: A Hands-On Guide, 2nd Edition, Axelrod
Schnall Publishers.
Course Title Natural Language Processing
Course Code (Credit) CS30016 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CM30006
Course Objectives:
 To understand the steps involved in Natural language processing
 To learn about the lexical, syntactic and semantic analysis of
natural language processing
 To explore the various parsing techniques for natural languages
 To understand the statistical models for Natural language
processing
 To learn about the various applications involved in Natural language
processing
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Lexical Analysis:
Lexical Analysis, Regular expression and Automata for string matching,
Words and Word Forms, Morphology fundamentals, Morphological
Diversity of Indian Languages, Morphology Paradigms, Finite State
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 152

Machine, Transducers Based Morphology, Automatic Morphology
Learning, Parts of Speech, N-gram Models, Hidden Markov Models.*
UNIT II
Speech Processing:
Biology of Speech Processing, Place and Manner of Articulation, Word
Boundary Detection, Argmax based computations, HMM and Speech
Recognition, Text to Speech Synthesis, Rule based, Concatenative based
approach.
UNIT III
Parsing:
Theories of Parsing, Parsing Algorithms, Earley Parser, CYK Parser,
Probabilistic Parsing, CYK, Resolving attachment and structural
ambiguity, Shallow Parsing, Dependency Parsing, Named Entity
Recognition, Maximum Entropy Models, Conditional Random Fields.*
UNIT IV
Lexical Knowledge Networks:
Meaning: Lexical Knowledge Networks, Wordnet Theory, Indian Language
Wordnets and Multilingual Dictionaries, Semantic Roles, Word Sense
Disambiguation, WSD and Multilinguality, Metaphors, Coreference and
Anaphora Resolution.*
UNIT V
Applications:
Applications: Sentiment Analysis, Text Entailment, Machine Translation,
Question Answering System, Information Retrieval, Information Extraction
Cross Lingual Information Retrieval (CLIR).*
*Programming Assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Evaluate different computing architectures for natural language
processing for various parameters
CO2: Justify the various steps necessary for processing natural language
CO3: Suggest appropriate lexical and parsing techniques for a given
natural language
CO4: Apply appropriate statistical models for a given natural language
application
CO5: Modify existing algorithms to suit any natural language for
processing
CO6: Suggest appropriate pre-processing steps essential for the various
applications involving natural language processing
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 153

Textbooks:
1. Christopher Manning, Schutze Heinrich, “Foundations of Statistical
Natural Language Processing”, MIT Press, 1999.
Reference Books:
1. Allen James, “Natural Language Understanding”, Second Edition,
Benjamin Cumming, 1995.
Course Title Deep Learning Techniques
Course Code (Credit) CS40001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS31001
Course Objectives:
 To introduce building blocks of deep neural network architecture
 To learn deep learning algorithms and its problem settings
 To understand representation and transfer of knowledge using deep
learning
 To learn to use deep learning tools and framework for solving real-
life problems
 To use Python for Deep Learning
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Deep Networks:
Deep Feedforward Networks, Learning XOR, Gradient Based learning,
Hidden Units, Back-propagation and other Differential Algorithms,
Regularization for Deep Learning, Optimization for training Deep Models.
UNIT II
Convolutional Networks:
Convolution operation, Motivation, Pooling, Convolution and Pooling as
strong prior, Efficient convolution algorithms, Unsupervised features,
Sequence Modeling: Recurrent and Recursive Nets, LSTM Networks,
Applications, Computer Vision, Speech Recognition, Natural Language
Processing.
UNIT III
Linear factor Models:
Probabilistic PCA and Factor Analysis, Independent Component Analysis
(ICA), Auto encoders, Regularized Auto encoders, Representational Power,
Layer size and Depth, Stochastic Auto encoders, Applications.
UNIT IV
Representation Learning:
Greedy Layer-wise Unsupervised Pre-Training, Transfer learning and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 154

Domain Adaptation, Deep Generative Models.
UNIT V
Deep Learning with Python:
Introduction to Keras and Tensor flow, Deep Learning for computer vision,
convnets, Deep Learning for Text and Sequences, Generative Deep
Learning, Text Generation with LSTM, DeepDream, Neural Style Transfer,
Generating images with variational auto encoders, Generative Adversarial
Networks (GAN).
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Assess the concept of deep learning
CO2: Identify the deep learning algorithms which are more
appropriate for various types of learning tasks in various domains
CO3: Incorporate transfer of knowledge in machine learning algorithms
CO4: Implement deep learning algorithms and solve real-world problems
CO5: Develop Deep Learning techniques using Python
CO6: Represent learning Models
Textbooks:
1. Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, “Deep Learning”, The
MIT Press, 2016.
Reference Books:
1. Francois Chollet, “Deep Learning with Python”, Manning Publications,
2017.
2. Aurélien Géron, “Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and
TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to Build Intelligent
Systems”, First Edition, O'Reilly Media, 2017.
3. Josh Patterson, “Deep Learning: A Practitioner's Approach”, First
Edition, O'Reilly Media.
Course Title Software Testing and Automation
Course Code (Credit) CS40003 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS31001
Course Objectives:
 To understand the criteria for test cases
 To Develop and design test cases
 To Analyse test management and test automation techniques
 To Assess test metrics and measurements
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 155

 To Design and validate website testing
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Testing as an Engineering Activity, Testing as a Process, Testing Maturity
Model, Testing axioms, Basic definitions, Software Testing Principles, The
Tester‘s Role in a Software Development Organization, Origins of Defects,
Cost of defects, Defect Classes, The Defect Repository and Test Design,
Defect Examples, Developer/Tester Support of Developing a Defect
Repository.
UNIT II
Test Case Design Strategies:
Test case Design Strategies, Using Black Box Approach to Test Case
Design, Boundary Value Analysis, Equivalence Class Partitioning, State
based testing, Cause-effect graphing, Compatibility testing, User
documentation testing, Domain testing, Random Testing, Requirements
based testing, Using White Box Approach to Test design, Test Adequacy
Criteria, Static testing vs. Structural testing, Code functional testing,
Coverage and Control Flow Graphs, Covering Code Logic, Paths, Code
complexity testing, Additional White box testing approaches, Evaluating
Test Adequacy Criteria.
UNIT III
Levels of Testing:
The need for Levels of Testing, Unit Test, Unit Test Planning, Designing
the Unit Tests, The Test Harness, Running the Unit tests and Recording
results, Integration tests, Designing Integration Tests, Integration Test
Planning, Scenario testing, Defect bash elimination System Testing,
Acceptance testing, Performance testing, Regression Testing,
Internationalization testing, Ad-hoc testing, Alpha Beta Tests, Testing OO
systems, Usability and Accessibility testing, Configuration testing,
Compatibility testing, Testing the documentation, Website testing.
UNIT IV
Test Management:
People and organizational issues in testing, Organization structures for
testing teams, Testing services, Test Planning, Test Plan Components, Test
Plan Attachments, Locating Test Items, Test management, Test process,
Reporting Test Results, Introducing the test specialist, Skills needed by a
test specialist, Building a Testing Group, The Structure of Testing Group,
The Technical Training Program.
UNIT V
Test Automation:
Software test automation, skills needed for automation, Scope of
automation, Design and architecture for automation, Requirements for a
test tool, Challenges in automation, Test metrics and measurements –
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 156

project- progress and productivity metrics.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify suitable tests to be carried out
CO2: Design test cases suitable for a software development for different
domains
CO3: Prepare test planning based on the document
CO4: Document test plans and test cases designed
CO5: Apply automatic testing tools
CO6: Develop and validate a test plan
Textbooks:
1. Srinivasan Desikan, Gopalaswamy Ramesh, “Software Testing:
Principles and Practices”, Pearson Education, 2006.
2. Ron Patton, “Software Testing”, Second Edition, Second Edition, Sams
Publishing, 2007.
Reference Books:
1. Ilene Burnstein, “Practical Software Testing”, Springer International
Edition, 2003.
2. Edward Kit, “Software Testing in the Real World – Improving the
Process”, O’Reilly(Sams), 1995.
3. Boris Beizer, “Software Testing Techniques”, Second Edition, Wiley,
1990.
4. Aditya P. Mathur, “Foundations of Software Testing Fundamental
Algorithms and Techniques”, Dorling Kindersley (India) Pvt. Ltd.,
Pearson Education, 2008
Course Title Human Computer Interaction
Course Code (Credit) CS40005 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To provide an overview of the concepts of human-computer interfaces
 To understand the theoretical dimensions of human factors
involved in the acceptance of computer interfaces
 To understand the implementation of human-computer interfaces
 To identify the various tools and techniques for interface analysis,
design and evaluation
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
HCI Foundations: Input–output channels, Human memory, Thinking:
reasoning and problem solving, Emotion, Individual differences, Psychology
and the design of interactive systems, Text entry devices, Positioning,
pointing and drawing, Display devices, Devices for virtual reality and 3D
interaction, Physical controls, Sensors and special devices, Paper: Printing
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 157

and scanning.
UNIT II:
Designing, Programming Interactive systems, Models of interaction,
Frameworks and HCI, Ergonomics, Interaction styles, Elements of the
WIMP interface, The context of the interaction, Experience, Engagement
and fun, Paradigms for interaction. Cantered Design and testing,
Interaction design basics, The process of design, User focus, Scenarios,
Navigation design, Screen design and layout, Iteration and prototyping.
UNIT III:
HCI in the software process, Iterative design and prototyping, Design rules,
Principles to support usability, Standards and Guidelines, Golden rules
and heuristics, HCI patterns. Implementation support, Elements of
windowing systems, Programming the application, Using toolkits, User
interface management systems.
UNIT IV:
Evaluation techniques, Evaluation through expert analysis, Evaluation
through user participation, Universal design, User support. Models and
Theories, Cognitive models, Goal and task hierarchies, Linguistic models,
The challenge of display- based systems, Physical and device models,
Cognitive architectures.
UNIT V:
Collaboration and communication, Face-to-face communication,
Conversation, Text-based communication, Group working, Dialog design
notations, Diagrammatic notations, Textual dialog notations, Dialog
semantics, Dialog analysis and design Human factors and security,
Groupware, Meeting and decision support systems, Shared applications
and artifacts, Frameworks for groupware, Implementing synchronous
groupware, Mixed, Augmented and Virtual Reality.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Describe the Human Computer Interaction and its fundamentals.
CO2: Design and Develop processes and life cycle of Human Computer
Interaction
CO3: Analyze product usability evaluations and testing methods
CO4: Apply the interface design standards/guidelines for cross cultural
and disabled users
CO5: Categorize, Design and Develop Human Computer Interaction in
proper architectural structures
CO6: Build the application oriented human computer interface for solving
real life problems.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 158

Textbooks:
1. Alan Dix, Janet Finlay, G D Abowd, R Beale, “Human, Computer
Interaction’’, Third Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2008.
2. Shneiderman, Plaisant, Cohen, Jacobs, “Designing the User
Interface: Strategies for Effective Human Computer Interaction”,
Fifth Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2010.
Course Title Computer Graphics and Multimedia Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS40007 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objectives
 To understand the basics of various inputs and output computer
graphics hardware devices
 Exploration of fundamental concepts in 2D and 3D computer
graphics
 To know 2D raster graphics techniques, 3D modeling, geometric
transformations, 3D viewing and rendering
 Exploration of fundamental concepts in multimedia systems, file
handling, hypermedia
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Basic of Computer Graphics:
Applications of computer graphics, Display devices, Random and Raster
scan systems, Color models, Graphics Primitives: Points, Lines, Circles
and ellipses as primitives, Scan conversion algorithms for primitives.*
UNIT II
Two-Dimensional Graphics:
Two dimensional geometric transformations, Matrix representations and
homogeneous coordinates, Composite transformations, Two dimensional
viewing, Viewing pipeline, Viewing coordinate reference frame, Window to
viewport coordinate transformation, Two dimensional viewing functions,
Clipping operations, Point, Line, Polygon clipping algorithms.*
UNIT III
Three-Dimensional Graphics:
Three dimensional concepts, Three dimensional object representations,
Polygon surfaces, Polygon tables, Plane equations, Polygon meshes,
Curved Lines and surfaces, Quadratic surfaces, Blobby objects, Spline
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 159

representations, Bezier curves and surfaces, B-Spline curves and surfaces,
Transformation and Viewing: Three dimensional geometric and modeling
transformations, Translation, Rotation, Scaling, composite
transformations, Three dimensional viewing, Viewing pipeline, Viewing
coordinates, Projections, Clipping.*
UNIT IV
Multimedia System Design & Multimedia File Handling:
Data and File Formats, Multimedia basics, Multimedia applications,
Multimedia system architecture, Evolving technologies for multimedia,
Defining objects for multimedia systems, Multimedia data interface
standards, Multimedia databases, Compression and decompression, Data
and file format standards, Multimedia I/O technologies, Digital voice and
audio, Video image and animation, Full motion video, Storage and retrieval
technologies.*
UNIT V:
Hypermedia:
Multimedia authoring and user interface, Hypermedia messaging, Mobile
messaging, Hypermedia message component, Creating hypermedia
message, Integrated multimedia message standards, Integrated document
management, Distributed multimedia systems.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Make use of various computer graphics hardware and display
technologies
CO2: Analyze and implement various algorithms to scan, convert the
basic geometrical primitives, transformations, Area filling
CO3: Identify the use of three dimensional graphics, 3D geometric
transformations, projections to detect visible surfaces
CO4: Apply 2D and 3D viewing technologies into the real world
applications
CO5: Implement multimedia components efficiently
CO6: Design and develop of modeling, rendering, shading and animation.
Textbooks:
1. James. D. Foley, A. Van Dam, S. K. Feiner, J. F. Hughes,
“ComputerGraphics: Principles and practice”, Third Edition, Pearson,
1997.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 160

2. Donald Hearn, Pauline Baker M, “Computer Graphics in C Version”,
Pearson Education, 2007.
3. Andleigh, P. K, Kiran Thakrar, “Multimedia Systems and Design”,
Pearson Education, 2003.
Reference Books:
1. D. F. Rogers, J. A. Adams, “Mathematical Elements for Computer
Graphics”, Second Edition, McGraw Hill International Edition, 1990.
2. F. S. Hill Jr., “Computer Graphics using OpenGL”, Third Edition,
Pearson Education, 2003.
3. “The OpenGL Reference Manual, The Bluebook”, Version 1.4, Fourth
Edition, Addison-Wesley.
4. Judith Jeffcoate, “Multimedia in Practice: Technology and Applications”,
Pearson Education, 1998.
5. “The OpenGL Programming Guide, The Redbook”, Version 2, Fifth
Edition, Addison-Wesley.
Course Title Principles of Cryptography
Course Code (Credit) IT40009 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To gain knowledge about the mathematics of the cryptographic
algorithms
 To get an insight into the working of different existing cryptographic
algorithms
 To learn about key exchange protocols and attacks on such protocols
 To introduce the fundamental concepts of hash functions and digital
signatures
 To learn how to use cryptographic algorithms in security
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Mathematical Foundations:
Number Theory: Fermat's theorem, Cauchy 's theorem, Chinese remainder
theorem, Primality testing algorithm, Euclid's algorithm for integers,
quadratic residues, Legendre symbol, Jacobi symbol.*
UNIT II
Classical Cryptosystems:
Cryptography and cryptanalysis, Classical Cryptography, different type of
attack: CMA, CPA, CCA, Shannon perfect secrecy, OTP, Pseudo random bit
generators, stream ciphers and RC4.*
UNIT III
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 161

Symmetric Key Ciphers:
Block ciphers: Modes of operation, DES and its variants, finite fields
(2n), AES, linear and differential cryptanalysis.*
UNIT IV
Asymmetric Key Ciphers:
One-way function, Trapdoor one-way function, Public key cryptography, RSA
cryptosystem, Diffie-Hellman key exchange algorithm, ElGamal
Cryptosystem.*
UNIT V
Message Authentication:
Cryptographic hash functions, secure hash algorithm, Message
authentication, digital signature, RSA digital signature.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the relevance of number theory, group, ring, finite fields
and modular arithmetic in various contexts of Cryptography
CO2: Assess use of symmetric cryptosystem, public key cryptosystem
and digital signature scheme
CO3: Design and implement cryptographic protocols
CO4: Discuss the security of cryptographic algorithms
CO5: Evaluate the security of a protocol based on security metrics
CO6: Justify the usage of security principles and digital signatures for any
application
Textbooks:
1. Stinson. D., “Cryptography: Theory and Practice”, Third Edition,
Chapman & Hall/CRC, 2012.
2. Douglas Robert Stinson, Maura Paterson. “Cryptography: Theory and
Practice”, Fourth Edition, Chapman & Hall/CRC, 2012.
Reference Books:
1. W. Mao, “Modern Cryptography: Theory & Practice”, Pearson Education,
2010.
2. William. Stallings, “Cryptography and Network Security Principles
and practice”, Seventh Edition, Pearson Education, 2013.
Course Title Nature Inspired Computing
Course Code (Credit) CS40002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 162

 To gain knowledge on present and future computing paradigm changes
with examples found in the real world
 To design of various computing models using cellular automata,
biological and quantum computing.
 To be able to explain the application of NIC for solving real world
problem.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to NIC Computers:
Computing paradigms inspired by nature, Cellular automata, biological
computers, quantum computers, neural networks and molecular computing.
UNIT II
Nature Inspired Computing for Problem-Solving:
Artificial neural networks, Artificial immune systems, Swarm intelligence;
Evolutionary algorithms, Ant colony optimization, Particle swarm
optimization; Diffusion search
UNIT III
Nature Inspired Computing for Modeling:
Artificial life like forms and behaviour, Creative evolutionary art, Foraging and
satisfying, Autonomous self-organizing systems, Competition and cooperation,
Collective/crowd behaviour, Social trend and consensus.
UNIT IV
Immunocomputing:
Introduction, Immune System, Physiology and main components, Pattern
Recognition and Binding , Immune Network Theory, Danger Theory, Evaluation
Interaction, Immune Algorithms , Introduction, Genetic algorithms, Bone Marrow
Models , Forest's Algorithm, Artificial Immune Networks
UNIT V
Computing With New Natural Materials:
DNA Computing: Motivation, DNA Molecule , Adleman's experiment , Test
tube programming language, Universal DNA Computers , PAM Model, Splicing
Systems, Lipton's Solution to SAT Problem , Scope of DNA Computing , From
Classical to DNA Computing
Course Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of this course, students should be able to:
CO1: Identify the needs for present and future computing paradigm
changes with examples found in the real world
CO2: Formulate and implement the nature-inspired computing (NIC)
approaches in the contexts of problem-solving and modeling.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 163

CO3: Design of various computing model and use of cellular automata,
biological and quantum computing.
CO4: Explain the application of NIC for solving real world problem.
CO5: Describe the nature and characteristics of case study problems or
applications
CO6: Recommend new NIC methods and their general applicability to solve
the critical problems.
Textbooks:
1. D. Floreano and C. Mattiussi, Bio-Inspired Artificial Intelligence:
Theories, Methods, and Technologies, MIT Press, 2008.
Reference Books:
1. L. Nunes de Castro, Fundamentals of Natural Computing: Basic
Concepts, Algorithms, and Applications. Chapman and Hall/CRC, Boca
Raton, Florida, 2006.
2. Floreano D. and Mattiussi C., "Bio-Inspired Artificial Intelligence:
Theories, Methods, and Technologies", MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,
2008.
3. Albert Y.Zomaya, "Handbook of Nature-Inspired and Innovative
Computing", Springer, 2006.
Course Title IOT and Applications
Course Code (Credit) CS40004 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To learn the basic issues, policy and challenges in the Internet
 To get an idea of some of the application areas where Internet of
Things can be applied
 To understand the cloud and internet environment
 To understand the various modes of communications with Internet
 To understand about web of things
Course Contents:
Unit I
Introduction:
Definition, Foundations, Challenges and Issues, Identification, Security,
Components in internet of things: Control Units, Sensors, Communication
modules, Power Sources, Communication Technologies, RFID, Bluetooth,
Zigbee, Wifi, Rflinks, Mobile Internet, Wired Communication, IoT Platform
Overview, Raspberry pi, Arduino boards.*
Unit II
IoT Protocols:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 164

Protocol Standardization for IoT, M2M and WSN Protocols, SCADA and
RFID Protocols, Issues with IoT Standardization, Protocols, IEEE 802.15.4,
BACNet Protocol, Zigbee Architecture, Network layer, APS Layer Security.*
Unit III
Resource Management in the Internet of Things:
Clustering, Software Agents, Data Synchronization, Clustering Principles
in an Internet of Things Architecture, The Role of Context, Design
Guidelines, Software Agents for Object Data Synchronization, Types of
Network Architectures, Fundamental Concepts of Agility and Autonomy,
Enabling Autonomy and Agility by the Internet of Things, The Evolution
from the RFID-based EPC Network to an Agent based Internet of Things,
Agents for the behaviour of Objects.*
Unit IV
Case Study and IoT Application Development:
IoT applications in home infrastructures security Industries, IoT electronic
equipments, Use of Big Data and Visualization in IoT, Industry 4.0
concepts, Sensors and sensor Node, Interfacing using Raspberry
Pi/Arduino, Web Enabled Constrained Devices.*
Unit V
Web of Things:
Web of Things versus Internet of Things, Architecture Standardization for
WoT, Platform Middleware for WoT, WoT Portals and Business Intelligence,
Cloud of Things: Grid/SOA and Cloud Computing, Cloud Standards, Cloud
of Things Architecture, Open Source e-Health sensor platform.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the components of IoT
CO2: Analyze various protocols of IoT
CO3: Examine the working of sensors and embedded systems
CO4: Design portable IoT using appropriate boards
CO5: Develop schemes for the applications of IOT in real time scenarios
CO6: Design business Intelligence and Information Security for WoT
Textbooks:
1. Honbo Zhou, “The Internet of Things in the Cloud: A Middleware
Perspective”, CRC Press, 2012.
2. Dieter Uckelmann, Mark Harrison, “Architecting the Internet of Things”,
Springer, 2011.
Reference Books:
1. Arshdeep Bahga, Vijay Madisetti, “Internet of Things (A Hands-On-
Approach)”, Universities Press, 2014.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 165

2. Olivier Hersent, David Boswarthick, Omar Elloumi, “The Internet of
Things – Key Applications and Protocols”, John Wiley and Sons,
2012.
Course Title Agile Software Development
Course Code (Credit) CS40006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To develop an understanding on agile software development
 To learn about the principles, planning and requirement in agile
software development
 To understand the testing methodologies in agile software development
 To explore the metrics and measurement in agile software development
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Agile Software Development: Basics and Fundamentals of Agile Process
Methods, Values of Agile, Principles of Agile, Stakeholders, Challenges Lean
Approach: Waste Management, Kaizen and Kanban, Add process and
products add value, Roles related to the lifecycle, Differences between Agile
and traditional plans, Differences between Agile plans at different lifecycle
phases, Testing plan links between testing, Roles and key techniques,
principles, Understand as a means of assessing the initial status of a
project/ How Agile helps to build quality.
UNIT II
Principles:
Agile and Scrum Principles: Agile Manifesto, Twelve Practices of XP, Scrum
Practices, Applying Scrum, Need of scrum, Working of scrum, Advanced
Scrum Applications, Scrum and the Organization, Scrum values.
UNIT III
Planning and Product Management:
Agile Product Management: Communication, Planning, Estimation,
Managing the Agile approach, Monitoring progress, Targeting and
motivating the team, Managing business involvement, Escalating issue,
Quality, Risk, Metrics and Measurements.
UNIT IV
Requirements and Testing:
Agile Requirements: User Stories, Backlog Management, Agile Architecture:
Feature Driven Development, Agile Risk Management: Risk and Quality
Assurance, Agile Tools, Agile Testing: Agile Testing Techniques, Test-
Driven Development, User Acceptance Test, Agile Review: Agile Metrics and
Measurements, The Agile approach to estimating and project variables.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 166

UNIT V
Measurement:
Agile Measurement, Agile Control, Control parameters, Agile approach to
Risk, The Agile approach to Configuration Management, The Atern
Principles, Atern Philosophy, Rationale for using Atern, Refactoring,
Continuous integration, Automated Build Tools, Scaling Agile for large
projects: Scrum of Scrums, Team collaborations, Scrum, Estimate a Scrum
Project, Track Scrum Projects, Communication in Scrum Projects, Best
Practices to Manage Scrum.
Course Outcomes:
CO1: Assess principles, planning and requirement in agile software
development
CO2: Distinguish between agile software development and traditional
software development
CO3: Identify Agile Requirements
CO4: Suggest agile software development approaches for any real-time
problem
CO5: Provide measurement, metrics necessary for problems involving agile
software development
CO6: Inference best practices of traditional and agile software development
and use in real-time problem solving
Textbooks:
1. Robert C. Martin, “Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and
Practices”, First Edition, Pearson Education India, 2002.
2. Mike Cohn “Succeeding with Agile: Software Development Using
Scrum”, Pearson Education, 2010.
Reference Book
1. Robert C Martin, Micah Martin, “Agile Principles, Patterns and Practices
in C#”, Pearson Education, 2007.
Course Title Social Network Analysis
Course Code (Credit) CS40008 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 Recognize the concept of semantic web and related applications
 Employ learn knowledge representation using ontology
 Recognize human behavior in social web and related communities
 Sketch and learn visualization of social networks
 Investigate variety of descriptive measures for networks and
software to calculate them
Course Contents:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 167

UNIT I
Introduction:
Introduction to Semantic Web: Limitations of current Web, Development of
Semantic Web, Emergence of the Social Web, Social Network analysis:
Development of Social Network Analysis, Key concepts and measures in
network analysis, Electronic sources for network analysis: Electronic
discussion networks, Blogs and online communities, Web-based networks,
Applications of Social Network Analysis.
UNIT II
Modelling, Aggregating and Knowledge Presentation:
Ontology and their role in the Semantic Web: Ontology-based knowledge
Representation, Ontology languages for the Semantic Web: Resource
Description Framework, Web Ontology Language, Modelling and aggregating
social network data: State-of-the-art in network data representation,
Ontological representation of social individuals, Ontological representation
of social relationships, Aggregating and reasoning with social network data,
Advanced representations.
UNIT III
Extraction and Mining Communities in Web Social Networks:
Extracting evolution of Web Community from a Series of Web Archive,
Detecting communities in social networks, Definition of community,
Evaluating communities, Methods for community detection and mining,
Applications of community mining algorithms, Tools for detecting
communities, social network infrastructures and communities, Decentralized
online social networks, Multi-Relational characterization of dynamic social
network communities.
UNIT IV
Predicting Human Behavior and Privacy Issues:
Understanding and predicting human behavior for social communities, User
data management, Inference and Distribution, Enabling new human
experiences, Reality mining, Context, Awareness, Privacy in online social
networks, Trust in online environment, Trust models based on subjective
logic, Trust network analysis, Trust transitivity analysis, Combining trust
and reputation, Trust derivation based on trust comparisons, Attack
spectrum and counter measures.
UNIT V
Visualization and Applications of Social Networks:
Graph theory, Centrality, Clustering, Node-Edge Diagrams, Matrix
representation, Visualizing online social networks, Visualizing social
networks with matrix-based representations, Matrix and Node-Link
Diagrams, Hybrid representations, Applications, Cover networks,
Community welfare, Collaboration networks, Co- Citation networks.
Course Outcomes:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 168

Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Develop semantic web related applications
CO2: Describe and Represent knowledge using ontology
CO3: Recognize human behavior in social web and related communities
CO4: Inspect and Predict human behavior in social web and related
communities
CO5: Organize and Visualize social networks
CO6: Analyze tools for detecting communities social network infrastructures
Textbooks:
1. Peter Mika, “Social Networks and the Semantic Web”, First Edition,
Springer 2007.
2. Borko Furht, “Handbook of Social Network Technologies and
Applications”, First Edition, Springer, 2010.
Reference Books:
1. Guandong Xu, Yanchun Zhang, Lin Li, “Web Mining and Social
Networking – Techniques and Applications”, First Edition, Springer,
2011.
2. Dion Goh, Schubert Foo, “Social information Retrieval Systems:
Emerging Technologies and Applications for Searching the Web
Effectively”, IGI Global Snippet, 2008.
3. Max Chevalier, Christine Julien, Chantal Soulé-Dupuy, “Collaborative
and Social Information Retrieval and Access: Techniques for Improved
User Modelling”, IGI Global Snippet, 2009.
4. John G. Breslin, Alexander Passant, and Stefan Decker, “The Social
Semantic Web”, Springer, 2009.
Course Title Augmented and Virtual Reality
Course Code (Credit) CS40010 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS30015
Course Objectives:
 To know basic concepts of virtual reality
 To understand visual computation in computer graphics
 To understand interaction between system and computer
 To know application of VR in Digital Entertainment
 To know basic concepts of augmented reality
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
Introduction of Virtual Reality:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 169

Fundamental Concept and Components of Virtual Reality, Primary Features
and Present Development on Virtual Reality, Multiple Models of Input and
Output Interface in Virtual Reality: Input, Tracker, Sensor, Digital Glove,
Movement Capture, Video-based Input, 3D Menus & 3DScanner, Output,
Visual /Auditory / Haptic Devices.
UNIT II:
Visual Computation in Virtual Reality:
Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, Software and Hardware Technology
on Stereoscopic Display, Advanced Techniques in CG: Management of Large
Scale Environments & Real Time Rendering.
UNIT III:
Interactive Techniques in Virtual Reality:
Body Track, Hand Gesture, 3D Manus, Object Grasp.
Development Tools and Frameworks in Virtual Reality: Frameworks of
Software Development Tools in VR. X3D Standard; Vega, MultiGen, Virtools.
UNIT IV:
Application of VR in Digital Entertainment:
VR Technology in Film & TV Production, VR Technology in Physical Exercises
and Games, Demonstration of Digital Entertainment by VR.
UNIT V:
Augmented and Mixed Reality: Taxonomy, Technology and features of
augmented reality, Difference between AR and VR, Challenges with AR, AR
systems and functionality, Augmented reality methods, Visualization
techniques for augmented reality, Wireless displays in educational
augmented reality applications, Mobile projection interfaces, Marker-less
tracking for augmented reality, Enhancing interactivity in AR environments,
Evaluating AR systems.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Discuss the fundamentals and I/O components of the augmented and
virtual reality system
CO2: Evaluate different computing architectures for virtual reality
CO3: Provide opportunity to explore the research issues in Augmented Reality
and Virtual Reality (AR & VR)
CO4: Apply the different modeling concepts to visual virtualization
CO5: Explore the role of virtual reality in traditional & emerging
applications
CO6: Develop prototypes using the concepts for virtual reality
Textbooks:
1. Burdea, G. C., P. Coffet., “Virtual Reality Technology”, Second Edition,
Wiley-IEEE Press, 2003/2006.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 170

2. Alan B. Craig, “Understanding Augmented Reality, Concepts and
Applications”, Morgan Kaufmann, 2013.
Reference Books:
1. Alan Craig, William Sherman, Jeffrey Will, “Developing Virtual
Reality Applications, Foundations of Effective Design”, Morgan
Kaufmann, 2009.
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Course Title Data Structures Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS29001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the practical application of linear and nonlinear data
structures
 To introduce and practice advanced algorithms, programming
techniques
 To write modules for developing sophisticated computer
application programs
Topics Covered:
1. Problems in C/C++ using data structures involving arrays,
stacks, queues, strings, linked lists, trees, graphs.
2. Operations on stacks, queues and linked lists.
3. Applications of stack, Conversion of infix expressions to postfix and
evaluation of postfix expressions.
4. Application of linked lists – Singly, Doubly.
5. Implementation of priority queue.
6. Implementation of Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree, AVL Trees.
7. Implementation of BFS, DFS – Application of stack, queues.
8. Implementation of Sorting Techniques.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Apply and implement the learned algorithm for problem solving
CO2: Identify the data structure to develop program for real time applications
CO3:Design and develop optimal algorithms using appropriate data structures
CO4: Implementation of priority queue for optimal algorithms
CO5: Implement Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree, AVL Trees for problem
solving
CO6: Implement sorting techniques for real time applications
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 171

Reference Book:
1. Aaron M. Tenenbaum, Yedidyah Langsam, Moshe J. Augenstein “Data
Structures using C”, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2007.
Course Title Digital Systems Design Lab
Course Code (Credit) EC29005 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
Students will be able to gain knowledge and investigate different basic digital
circuits to apply in practical digital system design. They will gain knowledge
about verilog HDL and how to simulate the digital circuit of both
combinational and sequential logic circuits using verilog HDL.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Students will be able to gain knowledge about Verilog HDL and also able
to design and simulate various boolean functions.
CO2: Students will be able to simulate and design adder and parallel binary
adder.
CO3: Students will be able to simulate and design combinational logic circuits
like decoder and Multiplexer.
CO4: Students will be able to simulate and design sequential logic circuits
like Synchronous type counter and Asynchronous type counters.
CO5: Students will be able to simulate and design sequential logic circuits
using shift registers.
CO6: Students will be able to simulate and design synchronous sequential
circuit using concept of finite state machine.
Course Title Operating Systems Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS29002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites CS20002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concept of Operating System
 To have insight knowledge on different system calls and Unix
Utilities
 To experience the practical side of the functioning of various blocks
in OS
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 172

 To design a real world application by considering process
synchronization, Memory management
List of Experiments:
1. Hands on Unix Commands.
2. Shell programming for file handling.
3. Shell Script programming using the commands grep, awk, and sed.
4. Programs on Multithread using P-thread.
5. Implementation of CPU scheduling algorithms.
6. Implementation of Synchronization problems using Semaphores,
Message Queues and Shared Memory.
7. Implementation of Memory Management, Allocation, Placement and
replacement Algorithms.
8. Implementation of various Disk scheduling algorithms.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Experiment on shell script and P-thread
CO2: Solve synchronization problems
CO3: Develop programs for CPU scheduling, Memory allocation policy
CO4: Devise algorithm for deadlock avoidance
CO5: Implement memory management techniques
CO6: Implement various disk scheduling algorithms
Reference Books:
1. Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne, “Operating System Concepts”, Ninth
Edition,Wiley , 2013.
2. William Stallings, “Operating Systems – Internals and Design
Principles”, Nineth Edition, Pearson Publications, 2014.
3. Behrouz A. Forouzan, and Richard F. Gilberg, “UNIX and Shell
Programming”, Cengage Learning, 2003.
4. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, “Modern Operating Systems”, Fourth Edition,
Pearson Publications, 2014.
Course Title Java Programming Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS29004 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objectives:
 To impart hands on experience with java programming.
 To learn basic object oriented programming concepts
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 173

 To write programs using abstract classes, interfaces and packages
 To handle errors using exception handling technique
 To be able to write program using string and I/O classes.
 To write GUI programs using swing controls in Java.
List of Experiments:
1. Write a class file – box with three data members(length, width, height)
and a method volume() . Also implement the application class Demo
where an object of the box class is created with user entered
dimensions and volume is printed.
2. Write a program to overload addition method with various parameters
in a class in Java
3. Write a program which will overload the area () method and display the
area of a circle, triangle and square as per user choice and user entered
dimensions.
4. A plastic manufacturer sells plastic in different shapes like 2D sheet
and 3D box. The cost of sheet is Rs 40/ per square ft. and the cost of
box is Rs 60/ per cubic ft. Implement it in Java to calculate the cost of
plastic as per the dimensions given by the user where 3D inherits from
2D.
5. Illustrate the execution of constructors in multi-level inheritance with
three Java classes – plate(length, width), box(length, width, height),
wood box (length, width, height, thick).
6. Write a program in java to define a class Shape which has a data
member ‘area’ and a member function showArea(). Derive two classes
Circle and Rectangle from Shape class. Add appropriate data members
and member functions to calculate and display the area of Circle and
Rectangle.
7. Write a program to create an Account class containing acc_no, balance
as data members and disp() to display the details. Write another class
Person which inherits all the members of Account class and it has
additional data members such as pname and aadharno. Also it
overrides disp() method. Write the driver class to display the method
overriding technique.
8. Illustrate the usage of abstract class with following Java classes-
i) An abstract class ‘student’ with data members as roll no, reg
no and an abstract method course()
ii) A subclass ‘kiitian’ with course() method implementation
9. Define an interface Motor with a data member –capacity and two
methods such as run() and consume(). Define a Java class ‘Washing
machine’ which implements this interface and write the code to check
the value of the interface data member thru an object of the class.
10. Define an interface with three methods – earnings(), deductions()
and bonus() and define a Java class ‘Manager’ which uses this interface
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 174

without implementing bonus() method. Also define another Java class
‘Substaff’ which extends from ‘Manager’ class and implements bonus()
method. Write the complete program to find out earnings, deduction
and bonus of a sbstaff with basic salary amount entered by the user as
per the following guidelines –
earnings → basic + DA (80% of basic) + HRA (15% of basic)
deduction PF → 12% of basic
bonus → 50% of basic
11. Define two packages as – General and Marketing. In General
package define a class ‘employee’ with data members as
empid(protected), ename(private) and a public method as earnings()
which calculate total earnings as
Earnings, > basic + DA (80% of basic) + HRA (15% of basic)
In Marketing package define a class ‘sales’ which is extending from
‘employee’ class and has a method allowance() which calculates
Travelling Allowance as 5% of total earning. Write the programs to find
out total earning of a sales person for the given basic salary amount
and print along with the emp id.
12. Write a program to perform following operations on user entered
strings –
i) Change the case of the string
ii) Reverse the string
iii) Compare two strings
iv) Insert one string into another string
13. Write a Java program to generate an Array Index Out of Bounds
Exception and handle it using catch statement.
14. Write a Java class which has a method called Process Input().
This method checks the number entered by the user. If the entered
number is negative then throw an user defined exception called
Negative Number Exception, otherwise it displays the double value of
the entered number.
15. Create an user defined exception named Check Argument to
check the number of arguments passed through command line. If the
number of arguments is less than four, throw the Check Argument
exception, else print the addition of squares of all the four numbers.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 175

16. Design a user registration form using different controls of Swing
package.
17. Design a calculator using Swing package as shown below.
18. Design a graphical user interface which consists of two buttons
named as RED and BLUE. When the user clicks RED button, a message
“you have passed RED” will be displayed in the window. Similarly when
the user clicks BLUE button, a message “you have pressed BLUE” will
be displayed in the window.
19. Write a program in Java to copy the content of a given file to
another user entered file using character stream.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Run java programs using java compiler
CO2: Write java programs using basic object oriented programming
concepts
CO3: Write programs using abstract classes interfaces and packages
CO4: Write java program using multi-threading and exception handling
CO5: Design Java application using String and I/O classes
CO6: Design GUI application using Swing and interactive application
using event handling and JDBC
Reference Books :
1. Java-The Complete Reference, Herbert Schildt, 10th Edition,
McGraw Hill Education, 2014
2. Introduction to JAVA Programming, Y.Daniel Liang, 10th Edition,
Pearson Education, 2007
Course Title Database Management Systems Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS29006 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites CS20006
Course Objectives
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 176

 To explore the features of a Database Management Systems
 To interface a database with front end tools
 To understand the internals of a database system
 To identify Structure Query Language statements used in creation and
manipulation of Database
 To identify the methodology of conceptual modeling through Entity
Relationship model
List of Experiments
1. Working with DDL, DML and DCL.
2. Inbuilt functions in RDBMS.
3. Nested Queries & Join Queries.
4. Set operators & Views in SQL.
5. Control structures.
6. Working with cursors and exception handling
7. Working with Procedures and Functions.
8. Triggers.
9. Dynamic & Embedded SQL.
10. Database Design and implementation (Mini Project).
11. Working with XML*.
12. Forms & Reports*.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify Structure Query Language statements used in creation and
manipulation of Database
CO2: Use databases for building client server applications
CO3: Comprehend the internal working of a database system
CO4: Design and develop a database using SQL and the mechanism in
connecting with a Web based GUI
CO5: Analyze and design a real database application
CO6: Evaluate the efficiency of the database design for real time
applications.
Reference Books:
1. Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth, S. Sudharshan, “Database System
Concepts”, Seventh Edition, McGraw Hill, 2006.
2. C. J. Date, A. Kannan, S. Swamynathan, “An Introduction to Database
Systems”, Eighth Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 177

Course Title Algorithms Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS39001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites CS21001
Course Objectives:
 To learn how to analyze the complexity of algorithms
 To compare and evaluate algorithms in terms of time and space
complexity
 To program brute force, divide and conquer, decrease and
conquer, transform and conquer, greedy, and dynamic
techniques
List of Experiments:
1. Estimating worst-case/average-case complexity of algorithms via
programs.
2. Determining machine constants.
3. Programs involving some advanced data structures.
4. Implementing example problems.
5. Illustrating the different paradigms of algorithm design.
6. Solving miscellaneous problems e.g. problems in string manipulation,
graph theory, optimization.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Solve and analyze general algorithms based on space and time
complexity
CO2: Implement and empirically compare fundamental algorithms and
data structures to real-world problems
CO3: Design, develop, and optimize algorithms in different paradigms
CO4: Implement problems in string manipulation
CO5: Develop solutions using graph theory
CO6: Evaluate optimization techniques for real-world problems
Reference Books:
1. H. S. Wilf, “Algorithms and Complexity”, CRC Press.
2. T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, “Introduction to
Algorithms”, Prentice Hall.(Foreign Book Available)
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 178

Course Title Computer Networks Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS39003 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites CS30003
Course Objectives:
 To create client and server applications using the "Sockets" API and
the implementation of Data link layer protocol and TCP layer
 To conduct computer communication network simulations
 To have a hands on experience of computer network simulation
and modelling techniques using NS-3 simulation software
List of Experiments
1. Exercises on Socket Programming using C and Java
2. Exercises using NS-3 Network Simulator
a. Basics of Network Simulation
– Introduction , Platform required to run network simulator,
Backend Environment of Network Simulator, Agents and
applications, Tracing
b. Simulating a Local Area Network
– Local Area Network, LAN Topologies, MAC Protocol, Taking
turns, Ethernet, Ethernet Frame Structure, Ethernet Versions,
Simulating a LAN using Network Simulator3
– Implementation of various MAC protocols
– Setting up of various network topologies
– Measurement of routing protocols
c. Measuring Network Performance
– Network Performance Evaluation, Performance Evaluation
Metrics, Parameters Affecting the Performance of Networks,
Performance Evaluation Techniques, Network Performance
Evaluation using NS-3
– Setting up of network that carries various application protocols
and analyzing the performances
3. Hands on experiments on Network equipments
a. Switches, Routers
b. Hardware firewall
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 179

Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Invoke analytical studies of Computer Networks through network
simulation
CO2: Design a network using NS-3 toolkit and its importance in designing a
real network
CO3: Measure and analyze the network parameters for a high throughput
network
CO4: Practice experiments on Network Equipments
CO5: Evaluate Network Performance Evaluation using NS-3
CO6: Build experiments on Network equipments
Reference Books:
1. W. Richard Stevens, “UNIX Network Programming – Networking APIs:
Sockets and XTI”, Vol. 1, Second Edition, Prentice Hall, 1998.
2. Eitan Altman, Tania Jimenez, “NS Simulator for Beginners”, Morgan &
Claypool Publishers, 2011.
Course Title Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS39002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites CS30002
Course Objectives
 To provide skills for designing and analyzing AI based algorithms.
 To enable students to work on various AI tools.
 To provide skills to work towards solution of real life problems
List of Experiments
1. Installation and working on various AI tools viz. Python, R tool, GATE,
NLTK, MATLAB, etc.
2. Data preprocessing and annotation and creation of datasets.
3. Implementation of searching techniques, e.g. BFS, DFS, Best First
Search, A* search, etc.
4. Implementation of local search algorithms, such as Hill Climbing.
5. Adversarial searching through minimax search algorithm.
6. Solution of 4-queen problem and water jug problem.
7. Solution to the Tower of Hanoi problem.
8. Solution of the 8-puzzle problem.
9. Implementation of tic-tac-toe.
10. Basic classification and clustering algorithms
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 180

Course Outcomes:
Upon successful completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Utilize different AI tools.
CO2: Design and analyze AI based searching algorithms.
CO3: Implement local search algorithms.
CO4: Implement adversarial search and game-playing algorithms.
CO5: Build solutions for benchmark AI problems.
CO6: Develop solutions for real-world problems and understand basic
methods of machine learning.
Reference Books:
1. Dan W. Patterson, “Introduction to Artificial Intelligence and Expert
System”, Pearson Education, 2007
Course Title Applications Development Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS33002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-4-2)
Course Objectives:
 To be familiar with Web page design using HTML/XML and style
sheets
 To learn to write Client Server applications
 To be familiar with the PHP programming
 To be exposed to creating applications with AJAX
 Know the components and structure of mobile application
development frameworks for Android and windows OS based
mobiles
 Learn the basic and important design concepts and issues of
development of mobile applications
List of Experiments:
A. Web Applications
1. Create a web page for user registration using HTML, CSS and
validate the details using Javascript.
2. Write programs in Java using Servlets: (i) To invoke servlets from
HTML forms; (ii) Session tracking using hidden form fields and
Session tracking for a hit count.
3. Create three-tier applications using JSP for conducting on-line
examination for displaying student mark list. Assume that student
information is available in a database which has been stored in a
database server.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 181

4. Create a database with user information and books information
and create a webpage in which books catalogue should be
dynamically loaded from the database using AJAX.
5. Create and save an XML document at the server, which contains 10
users Information. Write a Program, which takes user Id as an
input and returns the User details by taking the user information
from the XML document.
6. Develop email verification application using PHP.
B. Mobile Applications:
1. Design restaurant data entry form using Table Layout and show
different events using activity class.
2. Write a program to capture image using built in camera and store it
in database.
3. Develop a banking application that registers the user by verifying
OTP.
4. Develop a native application that uses GPS location information and
convert into speech.
5. Write a program to call a number.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Construct Web pages using HTML/XML and style sheets
CO2: Build dynamic web pages with validation using Java Script objects
and by applying different event handling mechanisms
CO3: Develop Web application which makes use of PHP programming
CO4: Construct web applications using AJAX
CO5: Design and Implement various mobile applications using emulators
CO6: Deploy applications to hand-held devices
Reference Books:
1. Reto Meier, “Professional Android 4 Application Development”, Wiley,
2012
2. Matthew Gifford, “PhoneGap Mobile Application Development
Cookbook”, Packt, 2012.
3. Adrian Kosmaczewski, “Mobile JavaScript Application Development”,
O’Reilly, 2012.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 182

Course Title Internship
Course Code (Credit) CS48001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
In this course, the students will get opportunity to explore career
augmentation aspects prior to graduation, integrate theory and practice,
assess interests and abilities in their field of study, learn to appreciate work
and its function in the economy, develop work habits and attitudes necessary
for job success, develop communication, interpersonal and other critical skills
in the job interview process and build a record of work experience.
Course Outcomes:
On completion of the internship, the students will be able to
CO1: apply engineering knowledge in solving real-life problems
CO2: acquire new skills in the engineering disciplines of their own interest
CO3: get exposure to real-life-working environment practices, and to attain
the professionalisms
CO4: work with multi-tasking professionals and multidisciplinary team
CO5: prepare a technical report, to improve presentation and other soft skills
CO6: learn to appreciate work and its function in the economy
Course Title MINI PROJECT
Course Code (Credit) CS37001 ( L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-4-2)
Course Objective:
 Students are required to undertake a mini project either as an
individual or in a group in consultation with the project supervisor
which may be completed in one semester.
 The project work is aligned with the discipline of the student and its
allied areas. It is preferably related to certain research objective or
advanced technical domain.
 Students will demonstrate higher level learning outcomes and cognitive
skills in the implementation of the project.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: perform a background study on certain technical aspect and formulate a
project objective
CO2: outline a pathway for the implementation of the project within the time
line
CO3: apply fundamental engineering concepts, advanced technical know-how,
use modern engineering tools, perform experiments and critically analyze
the data
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 183

CO4: provide engineering solutions, design system components or processes
with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global,
cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
CO5: function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in a
team under Multidisciplinary settings following ethical practices
CO6: communicate effectively with a range of audiences and prepare
technical reports
Course Title Project – I / Research Project -I
Course Code (Credit) CS47001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-10-5)
Course Objective:
Students are required to undertake a final year major project either as an
individual or in a group in consultation with the project guide which may be
completed in one year. The project should be related to certain advanced
technical domain. The work encompasses two semesters and to be carried out
in two phases. In Project-I, students are expected to complete detailed
literature review, identify their objective and start working on the same;
perform experiments, carry out analyses and report their findings to their
supervisors and the panel.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1: conduct a detailed research survey or background study and summarize
the theory and findings
CO2: formulate a research question or a general objective of the project
CO3: propose and outline the solution to the research question or a pathway
for the implementation of the project with consideration of public health,
safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and
economic factors
CO4: conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and
use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
CO5: function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in a
team under
Multidisciplinary settings following ethical practices
CO6: communicate effectively with a range of audiences and prepare technical
reports.
Course Title Project – II/ Research Project-II
Course Code (Credit) CS47002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-18-9)
Course Objective:
Project-II is a continuation of Project-I, the second phase of final year major
project. Students should complete all related experiments, develop a final
solution, product or system and validate the applicability of the same under
real time scenario with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as
well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors. They
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 184

produce a detailed technical report on their work as well as individual
contribution reports. Throughout the implementation of the major final year
project, students should demonstrate all cognitive skills and attainment of all
program outcomes and student outcomes.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: readily apply fundamental concepts in their area of study for executing
the projects
CO2: demonstrate skill in using modern technical tools, apply advanced
technical knowledge integrate information from different sources,
perform complex experiments and critically analyze the findings to draw
conclusions
CO3: provide engineering solutions to predefined research question or project
objective, design system components or processes with consideration of
public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social,
environmental, and economic factors
CO4: function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in a
team under
multidisciplinary settings following ethical practices
CO5: communicate effectively with a range of audiences and prepare detailed
technical reports
CO6: demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the management
principles in executing their project as a member or leader of the team, and
willingness to engage in life-long learning.
Course Title Web Design
Course Code (Credit) CS28001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-1-1)
Course Objectives:
Web design and programming is a large field, with different types of
technologies implemented by different tools. HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are
known to be the three pillars of client-side web programming. After finishing
this course, a student should be prepared to write nicely formatted,
interactive web pages, with no dependencies on server-side technologies.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
HTML Fundamentals
HTML: Structure of a program, various tags and their roles in HTML
programs, Lists: ordered, unordered, definition, Table
UNIT II
More with HTML
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 185

Form design,Frames, link and it’s types, Images
UNIT III
CSS Essentials
Style sheets: Inline, Internal, External
UNIT IV
JavaScript Basics
Introduction, characteristics, Variables, Data types, Type casting and
conversion Functions. Primitives, operators, Control statements, Array,
Function, Function – Parameter Passing and dynamic argument and return
statement
UNIT V
More with JavaScript
DOM - browser, window, document, image and form object, Properties and
Methods of different objects, Predefined Java Script Object - Array, String and
Date Object and their methods, Event handling – Link, Body, Image and
events associated with different HTML tags
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO2: Understand the basics of web page design.
CO3: Use formatting instructions of HTML.
CO4: Apply the style formats using CSS.
CO5: Write basic scripts using JavaScript.
CO6: Apply DOM in web pages.
CO7: Create dynamic web pages using HTML and JavaScript.
Textbooks:
1. MASTERING HTML, CSS & Java Script Web Publishing, Laura
Lemay, Rafe Colburn and Jennifer Kyrnin, BPB Publications.
Reference Books:
1. HTML, CSS and JavaScript All in One, Sams Teach Yourself, Julie C.
Meloni and Jennifer Kyrnin, Pearson Education.
2. HTML 5 Black Book, DT Editorial Services, Dreamtech Press.
HASS ELECTIVE COURSES
Organizational Behaviour
Course Title
Course Code (Credit) HS20220 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
This course shall guide the students to learn the basic concepts of
Organizational Behaviour and its applications in contemporary organizations.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 186

Further, it help them to describe how people behave under different
conditions and understand why people behave as they do. The students
would be in a position to synthesize related information and evaluate options
for the most logical and optimal solution such that they would be able to
predict and control human behaviour and improve results. Lastly, this course
would help the students to understand how individual, groups and structure
have impacts on the organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Organizational Behaviour:
Organizational Behaviour- nature and scope; Need for studying OB;
contributing disciplines to OB; evolution of OB; OB approaches and models;
OB opportunities and disruptions
UNIT II
Individual Perspective:
Introduction to Individual behaviour; Personality- concept, determinants,
types and theories/models; Personality and OB; Perception- meaning,
perceptual process, factors affecting perception; perception and its application
in OB; Attitude- nature, components, formation and types; Values- concepts,
types and formation; attitude, values and behaviour
UNIT III
Individual Perspective:
Learning- meaning, determinants, theories and principles; learning and
behaviour; Motivation- nature, importance, process and theories; managerial
implication of motivation- job design, quality of work life and employee
engagement; organizational citizenship behaviour- meaning, theoretical
perspective, determinants and predictors
UNIT IV
Group Perspective:
Foundation of group behaviour; meaning and characteristics of group; why do
people form and join groups; types and groups; stages of group development;
group decision making; Team building- meaning and types of team; team
building process; Meaning, sources and types of conflict; conflict management
and negotiation strategies; Leadership- meaning and importance;
differentiating between leader and manager; leadership styles; leadership
theories
UNIT V
Organizational Perspective:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 187

Organizational structure- meaning and elements; Organizational culture-
meaning, types and functions of culture; creating, sustaining and changing a
culture; Organizational change- meaning and need; ; managing resistance to
change; Organizational development- meaning, objectives, models and
interventions
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Know about organization, organizational behaviour, it’s nature, scope
and significance,
CO2 : Develop their personality as per industry requirement,
CO3 : Apply motivational techniques to make the employees work with
confidence and satisfaction,
CO4 : Develop different leadership styles to adjust themselves in different
organizational situations,
CO5 : Improve the knowledge of group behaviour and techniques of group
decision making,and
CO6 : Apply the concepts for managing changes in organization as well as the
development of an organization’s human resources.
Textbooks:
1. Dr. S..S. Khanka,Organizational behaviour texts and cases Sultan
Chand, OB text and cases S.S. Khanka, S chand, 2022
2. Stephen P. Robbins, Timothy A. Judg, Neharika Vohra Organizational
Behaviour, Pearson, 18th edition, 2018
Reference Books:
1. Fiona M. Wilson,Organizational Behaviour and Work Oxford University
Press,2014
2. K. Aswathappa ,Organizational Behaviour, , Himalaya Publishing House,
2013
Course Title Economics Of Development
Course Code (Credit) HS20120 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to provide students with the essential tools and
concepts of development economics, to prepare them to understand what
makes underdevelopment persist and what helps development succeed.
Students will explore diverse dimension and measures of development, as well
as the application of microeconomic analysis to issues of development in poor
countries, including the study of household decisions and the analysis of
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 188

institutions and norms influencing development. And To enhance students
understanding of the SDGs to create a better- informed citizenry, which will
lead to a more sustainable action by all and for all.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Economic Growth and Development:
Meaning of development and Economic growth, Characteristics of less
developed countries. Factors in Economic development, Measuring
development and development gap — per capita income, inequality of income
and wealth, Gini coefficient, Human Development Index, Physical
Quality of Life Index, and other indices of development.
UNIT II
Theories of Economic Growth and Development:
Theories of Economic Development: Classical (Smith, Ricardo, Malthus),
Marxian – Theory of Social change, immutable laws, Crisis in capitalism,
Schumpeter and capitalist development, Rostow’s stages of growth. Partial
theories of growth and development: Vicious circle of Poverty, Big push,
balanced growth, unbalanced growth,
UNIT III
International aspects of Economic Development:
International trade as an engine of growth; Static and dynamic gains from
trade; Prebisch, Singer and Myrdal theses vs. free trade; Export-led growth;
Tariffs and effective protection; WTO and developing countries. External
resources; FDI; Aid vs. trade;
UNIT IV
Development and Environment:
Economy linkage; Environment as a necessity and luxury; Population
environment linkage. Allocation problem; Market failure for environmental
goods; environment as a public good.
UNIT V
Sustainable Development:
Concept and indicators of sustainable development. Common Property
Resources, Property right approach to environmental problem-property rights
approach, property rights and environmental problems, Externalities and
Pigovian tax, Coase theorem, Coase theorem and transaction cost. Prevention,
control and abatement of pollution.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 189

CO1: Understand key factors and issues in the process of economic
development.
CO2: Enhance their ability in applying economic models to study development
Problems,
CO3: Learning the role of the three basic components of ecosystems and
environment and underlying causes of their degradation,
CO4: Understand the policy scenario and the existing environmental
conventions/ regulations/ laws,
CO5: Development of sustainable planning for sustainable development of
environment, economy and firms, and
CO6: select and apply appropriate economic techniques to solve
environmental problems and measure the value of environmental goods.
Textbooks:
1. S.Ghatak, An Introduction to Development Economics, Allen and
Unwin, London,2003
2. Kindleberger, C. P. Economic Development, McGraw Hill, New York,
1958
3. Todaro, M. P. Economic Development, Longman, London.
References Books:
1. Thirwal, A. P. Growth and Development, Macmillan, U. K,2017
2. Adelman, I. Theories of Economic Growth and Development. Stanford
University Press, Stanford, 1966
3. Chenery, H. and T.N. Srinivasan (Eds) Handbook of Development
Economics, Vols 1 &amp; 2 Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2002
4. Myint, H. Economic Theory and Underdeveloped Countries, Oxford
University Press, New York,1971
Course Title International Economic Cooperation
Course Code (Credit) HS20122 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
This course's overarching objective is to equip students with knowledge of
both the toretical concepts and the actual procedures involved in
international trade. The specific purpose is to increase the knowledge of
importing and exporting essentials and to offer the with the skills for
understanding the international trading process.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Theories of International Trade
Classical Theories of International Trade- Mercantilism, Absolute
Advantage,Comparative advantage Theory, Gains from international trade;
Terms of trade; Theory of Reciprocal Demand; Modern Theories of
International Trade-Heckscher-Ohlin theory
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 190

UNIT II
Free Trade,Protection and Balance of Payment
Free trade and protection in developing countries; Forms, methods and effects
of protection; Introduction of BoP; Structure of BoP; Disequilibrium in BoP;
Measures to overcome disequilibrium in BoP., Tariff; Trade creation vs Trade
diversion.
UNIT III
International Organizations:
International Monetary Fund; World Trade Organasation; Regional Trade
Agreements; Trade Blocs.
UNIT IV
Foreign Exchange:
Foreign Exchange Market; Theories of foreign exchange; Factors affecting
exchange rate; Fixed and flexible exchange rate; FERA and FEMA.
UNIT V
EXIM Policies
Recent budgetary policies and programs relating to inequality; Analysis of
Economic Survey data.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Learn theories of international trade,
CO2 : Understand free trade, protection, and BOP,
CO3 : Analyse the role of international organisations,
CO4 : Understand the working of foreign exchange,
CO5 : Study the EXIM policies,and
CO6 : Analyse secondary data relating to international trade.
Text Books:
1. R. R Paul, Money Banking and International Trade, Kalyani Publishers; 12th
edition,2015, ISBN-10 ‏ : 932725774X ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-9327257748
2. Bo Södersten and Geoffrey Reed, Palgrave Macmillan, International
Economics. 1994, ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 0333612167 ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-0333612163
Reference Books:
1. Dominick Salvatore, International Economics: Trade and Finance, Wiley;
Eleventh edition,2017, ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 8126552344 ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-
8126552344
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 191

2. Paul R. Krugman, Maurice Obstfeld, Marc Melitz, International Trade:
Theory and Policy, 2017, ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 9789332585768 ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-
9332585768
Course Title Business Ethics And Corporate Governance
Course Code (Credit) HS30223 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course objective:
This course focuses upon the fundamental principles and standards that
should govern the business organizations. The objective of this paper is to
make the students aware about the importance of ethics, corporate
governance and role of CSR & sustainable development goals in the business
to encourage moral practices and sensitivity towards the ethical dimension of
managerial problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Business Ethics: Concept, Principles & Theories:
Meaning, objective and types of Ethics; Business ethics- concept, need, scope,
objectives and importance; factors influencing business ethics; Principles of
Business ethics; Relationship between ethics and business ethics; theories of
business ethics; Ethical dilemma and ethical decision making
UNIT II
Ethics in Practice across the domain:
Ethics in marketing- introduction, ethical dilemma in marketing, unethical
marketing practices, measures to stop unethical practices in marketing;
Ethics in Finance- introduction, code of ethics in finance, unethical practices
in finance or frauds, measures to stop unethical practices in finance; Ethics
in HRM- introduction, ethical issues in HRM (job discrimination, sexual
harassment, employee privacy, whistle blowing, affirmative action);
importance of workplace ethics and employee code of conduct
UNIT III
Corporate Governance:
Corporate Governance- concept, objective and need. Role of law in corporate
governance; important issues in corporate governance; Corporate governance
in India-past, present and Future; Importance and principles of Corporate
Governance
UNIT IV
Introduction to Corporate Social Responsibility:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 192

CSR- Concept, evolution and development; Why CSR; Apprehensions against
CSR; Forms and dimensions of CSR; making business corporations socially
responsible; CSR in India
UNIT V
Sustainable Development:
Introduction, meaning, history, features, objectives of sustainable
development; The pillars and principles of sustainable development; SDG and
its relevance in business
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the Course, the Student will be able to
CO1: Familiarize the learners with the concept and relevance of Business
Ethics in the modern era,
CO2: Understand the value of business ethics which will guide them in
maintaining firm moral values while taking managerial decision,
CO3: Apply the ability to make moral judgments in dilemmatic situations
across the work domains,
CO4: Analyse the application of management practices by adhering to
corporate law and ethics,
CO5: Evaluate the scope, opportunity and complexity of Corporate Social
responsibility in the global and Indian context
CO6: Create an opportunity to understand the sustainable development goals
in maintaining a balance between the economic, environmental and social
needs.
Textbooks:
1. Dr. K. Nirmala, Dr. B.A. Karunakara Reddy & N. Aruna Rani, Business
Ethics and Corporate Governance, Himalaya Publication House
2. C.S.V. Murthy, Business Ethics and Corporate Governance, Himalaya
Publishing, 2022
Reference Books:
1. Prabhakaran Paleri,Corporate Social Responsibility (concept, cases and
trends Cengage Learning India Pvt. Limited, 2020
2. Dr. S.S. Khanka,Business Ethics and Corporate Governance, Sultan
Chand, 2019
3. C.U. Saraf, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Corporate
Governance, Sustainable Development and Corporate Ethics/Business
Ethics Himalaya Publishing House 2017.
Course Title Leadership And Team Effectiveness
Course Code (Credit) HS 30225 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 193

An effective leader understands the team dynamics, stimulates the morale of
the followers and always aims at creating a participative workforce by
enhancing team work. This course mainly focuses on individual, group and
organization factors associated with leadership. There is a strong connection
between emotional intelligence and leadership because the technical skills
and knowledge will definitely help the students to fulfil the entry level
requirements. Similarly, understanding employee empowerment would assist
the students in acquiring the desirable professional skills.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Leadership: concepts and practices:
Meaning, Definition and understanding of leadership; the role and functions
of a leader; Differentiation between leadership and management; ; what
makes a leader effective; characteristics of an effective leader; leadership in
Indian organization
UNIT II
Leadership Perspectives:
Trait perspective of leadership (Great man theory and trait theory);
Behavioural perspective of leadership (mangerial grid and likert system - four
management); Studies on leadership (Hawthorne, IOWA, Michigan and Ohio);
Contingency perspective of leadership (fiedler’s contency theory, path goal,
hersey blanchard situational theory); contemporary perspective to leadership
(transformational, transactional, charasmatic, servant and Nurturant-task
leadership style)
UNIT III
Team effectiveness and Leadership:
Characteristics and types of teams; types and functions of group; Group vs
team; understanding an effective team; who is a team leader; tuckman’s team
development stages; team development and team building; team meetings and
leadership; team effectiveness leadership model; high-performance teams and
leadership;team cohesiveness; common threats to groups
UNIT IV
Emotional Intelligence and Leadership:
What are emotions; Meaning, type and source of emotions; Concept and
competencies of emotional intelligence; Elements of emotional intelligence;
importance of EI; EI at workplace; Emotional intelligence and leadership;
Significance of EI for leaders; strategies to enhance EQ in our jobs; EQ vs. IQ;
developing EQ; obstacles to the development of EQ
UNIT V
Leadership and empowerment:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 194

Employee empowerment- concept, need and importance; approaches to
empowerment; advantages and disadvantages of empowerment; empowerment
skills of a leader; empowering vs. Dis-empowering; leader as a coach
(coaching skill); delegation (advantages and levels of delegation, steps and
principles of effective delegation); empowering interpersonal skills
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Learn the characteristics and need of an effective leader,
CO2: Understand the effectiveness of different leadership styles in different
contexts from an instrumental, political and ethical perspective,
CO3: Apply leadership theories to the real business scenario,
CO4: Analyse group dynamics and importance of team work,
CO5: Evaluate the ways to handle emotions and stress and manage work-life
flexibility,and
CO6: Create organizational environment that is psychologically safe and make
the employees feel empowered.
Textbook:
1. Ranjana Mittal,Leadership Personal effectiveness and Team Building,
Vikas Publishing House Pvt Ltd, 2015
Reference Book:
1. S. Bhargava and Gourav Bhargava,Team Building and Leadership
Neelam Himalaya Publishing House, 2015
Course Title Market Structure And Pricing Policie
Course Code (Credit) HS30125 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
Develop the ability for getting conceptual clarity about the various types of
markets along with their functions and understand the pricing policy
operations in the different markets.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Cost and Revenue Analysis:
Concepts of cost (economic cost, production cost, real cost, opportunity cost,
private & social cost), cost function, Output maximisation and cost
minimisation, Derivation of cost function, traditional and modern theories of
costs. Concepts of revenue (total, average, marginal revenue), relationship
between TR, AR and MR.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 195

UNIT II
Market Structures and Perfect Competition:
Meaning of market, characteristics of market, and types of market.
Perfectly competitive market and features, equilibrium of the firm and
industry under perfect competition (short run and long run).
UNIT III
Monopoly Market:
Meaning, concepts and characteristics of monopoly market.
Equilibrium price and output determination under monopoly market in short
and long run. Monopoly price discrimination. Degree of monopoly power and
its measure.
Control and regulation of monopoly power.
UNIT IV
Duopoly and Oligopoly Market
Non-collusive oligopoly: Cournot’s duopoly and Kinked-Demand Model.
Collusive oligopoly: Cartel; Cartels aiming at joint profit maximization and
market sharing cartels.
Price leadership; low-cost price leadership, dominant firm price leadership
and barometric price leadership.
UNIT V
Monopolistic Competition
Meaning, price determination of a firm under monopolistic competition;
Chamberlin’s group equilibrium; theory of excess capacity; selling costs;
difference between perfect competition and monopolistic competition;
difference between monopoly and monopolistic competition.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Comprehend the significance of different components of market,
CO2: Analyze the basic economic concepts required for various types of
market and their policies,
CO3: Develop the problem solving aptitude through practical and case study
problems faced by the economy,
CO4: Able to use the economic tools in the decision making process of fixing
prices and quantities in different Market,
CO5: Differentiate between different markets and the policy measures to
regulate it, and
CO6: Survey and map the impact of the current micro and macro-economic
situations in the economy.
Textbooks:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 196

1. Koutsoyiannis, Modern Microeconomics, St. Martin's Press, New
York,2nd Edition 1979, ISBN 978-0-333-25349-6
2. G. S. Maddala , Ellen M. Miller ,Microeconomics: Theory and
Applications, , McGraw-Hill Inc.,US-Publisher, 1989, 0070394156-
ISBN
3. H L Ahuja, Modern Microeconomics: Theory & Applications, S Chand
Publishing,2022, ISBN : 9789355011015,
Reference Books:
1. Robert Pindyck, Daniel Rubinfeld, Microeconomics ,Eighth Edition,
2017, 9789332585096-ISBN,
2. Pearson Education Publication
3. G. Fransico Stigler, Theory of Price, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi,
4th Edition 1996.
4. H. Gravelle and R. Rees, Microeconomics, Person Education U.K. 3rd
Edition 2007, 2007ISBN: 9788131716557, 8131716554
5. H. R. Varian , Micro Economic Analysis, W W Norton & Company; New
York, 3rd edition 2019, ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-8130908632
Course Title Pragmatic Inquiry
Course Code (Credit) HS30127 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-03)
Course Objective:
As a foundation for lifelong inquiry, this course introduces students to
research techniques and how they are used in both liberal arts, technical and
professional courses.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Pragmatic Inquiry:
Meaning, characteristics, need, type, and approaches.
UNIT II
Research Problem:
Meaning, definition, selection, and framing of problem statement.
UNIT III
Research Design:
Meaning, characteristics, need, type, approaches, and problems of research
design.
UNIT IV
Sampling Design:
Meaning, characteristics, need, type, approaches, and problems.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 197

UNIT V
Data Collection Method and Analysis:
Types of data, Source of data, Methods of data collection, data analysis.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Understand the meaning and importance of research in behavioral
science
CO2 : Describe in detail different types of research methodologies,
CO3 : Identify the strengths and weaknesses of the different study designs,
CO4 : Assess whether research studies are using the most appropriate study
design
CO5 : Discuss why various approaches may be appropriate/ inappropriate for
their work-based research Question, and
CO6 : Apply the concepts in research related activity.
Textbooks:
1. Deepak Chawla & Neena Sodhi, Research Methodology: Concepts and
Cases, Vikas Publishing House,2018, ISBN-10: ‎ 9325982390, ISBN-13:
‎ 978-9325982390.
Reference Books:
1. C R Kothari and Gaurav Garg, Research Methodology, New Age
International Publishers,2019,ISBN-10 9386649225, ISBN-13- 978-
9386649225
2. S.K. Mangal, Research Methodology in Behavioural Sciences, Prentice
Hall India Learning Private Limited, 2013, ISBN-10 ‏ : ‎ 9788120348080,
ISBN-13 ‏ : ‎ 978-8120348080
3. Sameer S. Phanse, Research Methodology-Logic, Methods, and
Cases,OUP, Sameer S. Phanse,2016 ISBN: 9780199453788.
Course Title Economic Analysis Of Decision Rules
Course Code (Credit) HS30129 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-03)
Course Objective:
Analyze and understand investment decisions under the conditions of risk
and uncertainty. Particular economic models are not the ends, but the means
for illustrating the method of applying mathematical techniques to economic
theory in general.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Investment Decisions under Risk and Uncertainty:
Concepts of Risk and Uncertainty; Investment Decisions under Risk: The Pay-
Off Matrix Method, Risk-Adjusted Discount Rate Method, Certainty-
Equivalent Approach, Probability Theory Approach, Decision Tree Method,
Simulation, Sensitivity Analysis.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 198

UNIT II
Game Theory and Strategic behaviour of Firms:
Basics of Game Theory, Prisoners’ Dilemma: The Problem of Oligopoly Firms;
Application of Game Theory to Oligopolistic Strategy; Nash Equilibrium: Pure
and Mixed Strategy
UNIT III
Optimization: Constrained & Extrema:
Free and constrained optimization, extrema of a function of two variables:
graphical analysis, Lagrange method. Utility maximization & Cost
minimization.
UNIT IV
Linear and Non-Linear Programming for Business Decisions:
Conditions for Application of Linear Programming; Concept of Feasible
Solution; Assumptions of Linear Programming Application of Linear
Programming Technique: Profit Maximization Problem, Formulation of Profit
Maximization Problem in Linear Programming Mode; Graphical Method of
Solving Linear Programming Problems; Simplex Method: Algebraic Solution,
Simplex Tableau Method. Introduction to Non-Linear Programming
UNIT IV
Input-Output Analysis:
Input-output model, its structure and its derivation. The use of input output
model in Economics.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Analyze and understand investment decisions under the conditions of
risk and uncertainty,
CO2: Explain how game theory brings out the strategy used by the oligopoly
firms to determine the best possible action to maximize profit-maximizing
objective,
CO3: Understand functional formulation of the problem and application of
linear programming,
CO4: Describes different concepts used in analysing the national income and
the different methods applied to measure the national income,
CO5: Describe and explain the main channels of the monetary transmission
mechanism through monetary and fiscal policy,and
CO6: Describe managerial decisions through the application of some
economic concepts, theories and principles.
Textbooks:
1. D. N. Dwivedi, H L Bhatia, S N Maheshwari, VIKAS® PUBLISHING
HOUSE PRIVATE LIMITED, 2022
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 199

Reference Books:
1. C. Chiang and K. Wainwright, Fundamental Methods of Mathematical
Economics, McGraw Hill International Edition, 2017
2. K. Sydsaeter and P. J. Hammond:, Mathematics for Economic Analysis,
Pearson Educational Asia, 2002
Course Title Economics Of Health And Education
Course Code (Credit) HS30131 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The United Nations member states' adoption of the Millennium Development
Goals, which include among other objectives achieving universal primary
education, reducing child mortality, enhancing maternal health, and
combating diseases, reflects the significance of education and health in
enhancing wellbeing. This course offers a microeconomic framework to
examine, among other things, individual preference in the demand for health
and education, governmental involvement, and elements of inequality and
discrimination in both sectors. An outline of India's health and education
system is also provided.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Role of Health and Education in Human Development:
Importance of health and education outcomes and their relationship with
macroeconomic performance.
UNIT II
Health Economics Market:
Demand for health; uncertainty and health insurance market; alternative
insurance mechanisms; market failure and rationale for public intervention;
equity and inequality.
UNIT III
Education: Investment in Human Capital:
Rate of return to education: private and social; quality of education; signaling
or human capital; theories of discrimination; gender and caste discrimination
in India.
UNIT IV
Health and Education Sectors in India: An Overview
Health outcomes; health systems; health financing. Cost effectiveness and
cost-benefit analysis; burden of disease. Literacy rates, school participation,
school quality measures.
UNIT V
Trend in Health and Education Sector in India:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 200

Secondary data analysis pertaining to health and education sector. Trend
analysis and forecasting using time series data. Simple growth rate
calculations.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Understanding role of health and education in human development,
CO2: Analysing microeconomic foundations of health economics,
CO3: Assessing the growth of health sector in India,
CO4: Appraising the benefits of investment in human capital,
CO5: Assessing the growth of education health sector in India, and
CO6: Examining the underling discrepancies in both sectors.
Textbooks:
1. S. K. Mishra, and V. K. Puri, Indian Economy, Himalaya Publishing
House,2022, ISBN: 978-93-5596-423-6
Reference Books:
1. William, Jack, Principles of Health Economics for Developing Countries,
World Bank Institute Development Studies, 1999.
2. World Development Report, Investing in Health, The World Bank, 1993.
3. G.Ronald, Ehrenberg and S.Robert, Smith, Modern Labor Economics:
Theory and Public Policy, Addison Wesley, 2005.
4. Charniack Eugene, “Statistical Language Learning”, MIT Press, 1993.
Course Title Tribal Resource Management
Course Code (Credit) HS30423 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The course intends to impart a comprehensive knowledge about the reality,
pertaining to economic alleviation of the poor and downtrodden. It is inter-
disciplinary and based on utilization of natural resources employing
traditional means of approach, conducive for societal growth and
development. This shall hone socioeconomic environmental development for
uplifting the condition of tribal population for igniting new ideas in the new
economy.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Natural Resource Management
Introduction to Natural Resources and their management: Natural Resource
Management (NRM): Concept, Issue and Approaches; Need for developing
extension strategies for NRM; Issues in management of NRM; Problems
encountered while advocating strategies for NRM; Monitoring and auditing in
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 201

Natural Resource Management (NRM); Triple Bottom Line (TBL) and concept
of Sustainable Natural Resource Management; NRM of Water, land and
forests: Water resources and their management, Overview of irrigation
management, Integrated Watershed management and rainwater harvesting,
River Basin management; Scope of market mechanism in NRM
UNIT II
Agribusiness Management
Agricultural value chains and their relevance; Managerial Insights: Identifying
agribusiness opportunities; Assessing feasibility – technical, commercial and
financial and thereby identify feasible opportunities for projects; Analyzing
influences of external environment factors and associated risks; Discussions
on illustrative agribusiness projects; select models and opportunities of
agribusiness opportunities and ventures.
UNIT III
Environmental Resource Management of Tribals
Environment and Development-Theories of optimal use of exhaustible and
renewable resources; Sustainable Development - The concept of sustainable
development; strong and weak sustainability; Mechanism for environment
regulation in India; environmental laws and their implementation;
Environmental Policy in India-Policy instruments for controlling water and air
pollution and forestry policy; Institution for forest Management- The
institutions of joint forest management , social foresty-rationale and benefits
UNIT IV
Tribal Health and Education Management
Role of Health and Education in Tribal Development: Importance in poverty
alleviation; health and education outcomes and their relationship with
macroeconomic performance; Tribal Health in India: An Overview Health
outcomes; health systems; health; Evaluation of Health Programs for tribals:
Costing, cost-effectiveness and cost benefit analysis; burden of disease; Tribal
Education in India: An Overview Literacy rates, school participation, school
quality measures
UNIT V
Agro forestry Management
Multiplicity of Agroforestry products and services- ecological and economic
and cultural considerations- gender equality- preservation of indigenous
knowledge. Socioeconomic benefits of agroforestry; Smallholder livelihood and
the role of agroforestry- Food and nutritional security Fulfillment of food,
fodder, fuelwood and shelter based needs- income generation vs. subsistence
production; Adoption of AF- Determinants of adoption: feasibility, profitability,
and acceptability; . Self-efficacy in farmer decision-making - policy aspects.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 202

Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the concept of sustainable natural resource management,
CO2: Recognize agribusiness management, its opportunities and risks,
CO3: Discuss adequate skills to prepare and implement integrated
development plan & projects for
the optimal use of tribal renewable resources for the sustainable
development of the environment,
CO4: Illustrate the nuances of environmental policies and Laws in India and
understand the core competencies required for resource mobilization
and policy formulation based on the research insight,
CO5: Prioritize the role of health and education for the development of tribal
community, considering tribal people as resources, and
CO6: Develop trainees or volunteers as competent change agent in the field of
tribal resource management.
Text Books:
1. Madhusudan Bandi ,Tribals and Community Forest Management ,
Rawat Publication, 2013
2. Jumyir Basar,Indigenous Knowledge and Resource Management Shipra
Publications, 2014
3. Laishram Herojit, Rethinking Resource Management: Sustainability and
Indigenous Peoples, A.K. Publications, 2012.
Reference Book:
1. G.K. Bera, Tribal India’s Traditional Wisdom and Indigenous Resource
Management by, Abhjeet Publishers.
Course Title GENDER STUDIES
Course Code (Credit) HS30421 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to make student understand the concepts of
masculinity and femininity as analytical categories via analysing the role of
communalism, patriarchy, violence as major hurdles to women’s rights
globally. Further, this course will enhance their understanding over the
current health and education status of women to analyze impact of
government health policy on women. Additionally, it will bring greater
understanding over the integration of gender concerns and perspectives in
policies and programmes for sustenance of environment at international,
national, regional levels.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 203

Course Contents:
UNIT I
Understanding Basic Concepts in Gender Studies
Concepts: Sex, Gender, Sexuality, Femininities, Masculinities and other
sexualities, Patriarchy; WID: Women in Development; WAD: Women and
Development; GAD: Gender and Development
UNIT II
Gender and Human Rights Discourse:
Women’s Rights as Human Rights (FGM, FF, Rape, Honour Killing, IVP, Witch
Hunting, Virginity Test, Communalism, Trafficking, Immigration); National
Commission for Women and other State Commissions, Ministry and
Department of Women and Child.
UNIT III
Gender and Health:
Sexual and reproductive health (ICPD, B.P.A. Family planning and Abortion);
Impact of violence on women’s health; Women’s health movement: National
and International; National health and population policy; National Family
Health Survey (NFHS)
UNIT IV
Gender and Education:
Women’s Education in Free India: Gender Disparity in Enrolment;
Constraints of Women’s Education: Social, Economic, Cultural, Geographical,
other Factors; Important Committees and Commissions on Women’s
Education: Radhakrishnan Commission (1948), Mudaliar commission (1952),
Kothari Commission (1964-1966), Ramamurthy Commission (1991).
UNIT V
Gender and Environment:
Role of women in environment conservation; Role of Women in Waste
Management; Women’s Resistance to Environmental Destruction: Joint Forest
Management – CHIPKO Movement – Narmada Bachao Aandolan
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO 1: Familiarise the students with the concepts of sex, gender and sexuality
commonly used in gender studies,
CO 2: Identifying major human rights violations faced by women worldwide,
CO 3: Learn about women’s health movements and government health
policies,
CO 4: Develop an insight into policy perspective issues, and concerns of girl’s
education in India,
CO 5: Delineate the characteristics and the issues of environment and the
involvement of women in balancing ecosystem,and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 204

CO 6: Understand on sustainable development, millennium development goal,
and other global level development initiatives taken for uplifting
women status in society.
Reading Materials
1. Gerda Lerner, Creation of Patriarchy, Oxford University Press,1985
2. Menon, Nivedita. ed. 2007. Sexualities. Women Unlimited. New Delhi.
3. Gnew, Sneja, A Reader in Feminist Knowledge, Routledge, New
York,1991
4. Marjorie Agosin (ed.), Women, Gender and Human Rights: A Global
Perspective, Rawat Publications, 2000
5. Monica Chawla, Gender Justice: women and law in India, Deep and
Deep pub.,
New Delhi, 2006, 2013
6. P D Kaushik, Women’s rights; access to justice, Bookwell Publications,
New Delhi, 2007
7. Paola Monzini, Sex Traffic, Prostitution, Crime and Exploitation, Zed
Pub., 2005
8. Chloe E. Bird, Patricia P. Rieker, Gender and Health, Cambridge
University Press, 2008.
9. Jasmine Gideon, Ed., Handbook on Gender and Health (International
Handbooks on Gender series), Development Studies, Birkbeck,
University of London, UK, 2016.
10. Nelson E, Zimmerman C. Household survey on domestic violence
in Cambodia. Ministry of Women’s Affairs, Project Against Domestic
Violence, Cambodia,1996.
11. Parker B, McFarlane J, Soeken K. Abuse during pregnancy:
effects on maternal complications and birth weight in adult and teenage
women. Obstetrics and gynaecology, 1994, 84(3):323-328.
12. Madeleine Arnot and Mairtin Mac, An Ghaill, (2006) “Gender and
Education” Routledge, New York
13. Aruna Goel, (2004) “Education and Socio-Economic Perspective of
Women Development and Empowerment” Deep and Deep Publications,
New Delhi
14. Eileen M. Byrne, (1978) “Women and Education” Tevi Stock
Publications, Michigan
15. Payal Mago and Isha Gunwal, (2019). Role of Women in
Environment Conservation.
16. M.S Swaminathan. (1998). “Gender Dimensions in Biodiversity
management”. Konark Publisher’s Pvt. Ltd, New Delhi.
17. P.K.Rao. (2000). “Sustainable Development – Economics and
Policy”. Blackwell, New Delhi.
18. Swarup, Hemlata and Rajput, Pam. (2000). “Gender Dimensions
of Environmental and Development Debate: The Indian Experience” in
Stuart S. Nagel, (ed.) “India’s Development and Public Policy”. Ashgate,
Burlington.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 205

Course Title Indian Knowledge System
Course Code (Credit) HS30425 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to promote interdisciplinary study on all aspects
of the Indian Knowledge System (IKS), preserve and disseminate IKS for
further study and societal applications. It will actively help students to engage
in spreading the rich heritage of our country and traditional knowledge in the
field of Liberal Arts, Literature, Basic Sciences, Engineering and Technology,
Economics, mental and physical well being etc.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Meaning of Traditional Knowledge System:
Overview of the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Puranas, and the Itihasas. Main
Schools of Darshana/ Philosophy: Astika (Vedanta, Nyaya, Vaisheshika,
Sankhya, Mimamsa, Yoga) and Nastika (Buddhist, Jainist, Lokayata). Types of
Shastra (Vyakarana, Kavya, Alamkara, Shilpa, Vastu, Natya and Sangita).
Types of Kavya (Drishya, Shravya, Chitra). Theory of Rasa: Natyashastra by
Bharata (Chapter 6). Applied Traditional Knowledge: Myths, Rituals, Taboos
and Superstitions, Folktales, Proverbs. Fundamental Concept of Dharma and
Its Role in Various Streams of Indian Knowledge System
UNIT II
Yoga and Spiritualism:
Definition and Origin of Yoga. Significance of spirituality in Yoga, Historical
development of Yoga; Yogic philosophy: The eight limbs of yoga according to
Patanjali, Mind, body & spirit connection in yoga; Relevance of Asana,
Pranayama & Dhyana in Yoga: Physical posture for physical, mental and
spiritual development, Breathing techniques for energy restoration &
consciousness, Meditation for inner stillness and mindfulness, Meditation for
spiritual growth & self-discovery; Ethics & Moral Values in Yoga: Exploring
the ethical principles Yama and Niyama, Application of yogic principles to
daily life for spiritual growth; Yoga & Spirituality in modern life.
UNIT III
Fun with mathematics without calculator
Arithmetic- Quick calculation with 11 and 12, Multiplication with 99999 in
seconds, multiplication with numbers near the bases, vertical and cross
multiplication, Magic squares and square roots, cubes, fractions, divisions,
HCF and LMC in ancient style. Algebra- Factorising quadratic expressions,
One variable linear equation, Simultaneous linear equations. Implementation
of Vedic mathematics tools during competitive examinations.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 206

UNIT IV
Ancient Indian Science and Technology
Technological development in India: Agriculture (Origin and development,
ancient crops, Traditional practices), Water management (Overview, Harappan
water management, other case studies, Medieval Water structures), Pottery
(Overview, Technical aspects), Silpasastra (Architecture and Construction· An
introduction to Silpasastra, Construction Technology), Metallurgy
(Copper/Bronze/Zinc, Iron and Steel Technology in India).
UNIT V
Trade and Commerce in Ancient India
Internal, External, Trade routes Indo-Roman contacts and Maritime Trade of
South India; Silk and Cotton Textiles, the Principal Maritime Trade
Commodities of Ancient India; Trade routes in Ancient India: Silk Route and
Spice Route.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the concept of Indian traditional knowledge and its
importance,
CO2: Know the need and importance of protecting traditional knowledge,
CO3: Develop an appreciation among the students for ancient scriptures,
CO4:Contrast and compare characteristics and important kinds of
traditional knowledge,
CO5: Evaluate social change on traditional knowledge,and
CO6: Create innovative ways of bringing forward ancient knowledge to the
forefront.
Reading Materials
1. Dasgupta, Surendranath. A History of Sanskrit Literature, Motilal
Banarsidass
2. Banerji, Suresh Chandra. A Companion to Sanskrit Literature, Motilal
Banrasidass
3. Chatterjee, Satischandra. An Introduction to Indian Philosophy, Motilal
Banarsidass
4. Sharma, Chandradhar. A Critical Survey of Indian Philosophy, Motilal
Banarsidass
5. A Text Book on Yoga and Health by Dr. Sajib Kumar Bhowmik, Sports
Publication, 2020.
6. Light on the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, B.K.S Iyengar, Element, 2005.
7. The Complete Book of Yoga: Karma Yoga, Bhakti Yoga, Raja Yoga, Jnana
Yoga by Swami Vivekananda, Fingerprint Publishing, 2019.
8. Singhal, Aditi. How to Become A Human Calculator. ISBN :
9789352836543. S Chand Publishing
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 207

9. M. Tyra and K Kundan. Magical Book on Quicker Maths . ASIN ‏ : ‎
B07X93W2FC. BSC Publishing Co Pvt Ltd.
10. Singh, Balram. Science and Technology in Ancient texts. DK Print World
ltd, 2012. ISSN 9788124606322.
11. Chandra Moti, Trade and Trade Routes in Ancient India. New Delhi:
Abhinav Publications, 1977
12. Textiles in Ancient India: From Indus Valley Civilization to Maurya Period.
Vishwavidyalaya Prakashan, 1994.
13. Duraiswamy, D. Silk and Cotton Textiles, the Principal Maritime Trade
Commodities of Ancient India. ACTA VIA SERICA, Vol. 6, No. 2, Dec. 2021:
91-116, 6(2), 91–116.
OPEN ELECTIVE COURSES (OE)
Course Title Software Engineering Fundamentals
Course Code (Credit) CS30018 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To know software process models
 To understand application of software process models
 To be able to know requirements of the software projects
 To apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
 To be able to distinguish different testing methodologies
Course Contents:
Unit I
Software Process Models:
Software product, Software crisis, Handling complexity through Abstraction
and Decomposition, Overview of software development activities. Process
Models: Classical waterfall model, Iterative waterfall model, Prototyping
model, Evolutionary model, Spiral model, RAD model. Agile models: Extreme
programming and Scrum. Software Requirement Engineering
Unit II
Software Requirement Engineering:
Requirement Gathering and analysis, Functional and non functional
requirements, Software Requirement Specification(SRS) , IEEE 830
guidelines, Decision tables and trees.
Unit III
Software Project Management:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 208

Responsibilities of a Software project manager, Project planning, Metrics for
project size estimation, Project estimation techniques, Empirical estimation
techniques, COCOMO models, Scheduling, Organization & team structure,
Staffing, Risk management, Software configuration management.
Unit IV
Structural Analysis & Design:
Overview of design process: High level and detailed design, Cohesion &
coupling, Modularity and layering, Function–Oriented software design:
Structural Analysis, Structural Design (DFD and Structured Chart), Object
Oriented Analysis & Design, Command language, menu and iconic interfaces.
Unit V
Testing Strategies:
Coding, Code Review, Documentation, Testing:, Unit testing, Black-box
Testing, White-box testing, Cyclomatic complexity measure, Coverage
analysis, Debugging, Integration testing, System testing, Regression testing.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Elaborate on different software process models
CO2: Evaluate the requirements of the software projects.
CO3: Apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
CO4: Translate the baseline requirement specifications into design process.
CO5: Distinguish different testing methodologies.
CO6: Work ethically in a team on software projects
Textbooks:
1. Fundamentals of Software Engineering, Rajib Mall , PHI, Latest edition.
Reference books:
1. Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, Roger S. Pressman,
Eighth edition, MGH.
2. Software Engineering, Ian Sommerville, Tenth Edition, Pearson
Education.
Course Title Essentials of Computer Science
Course Code (Credit) CS30020 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To make the student understand the basic building blocks of a
computing system
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 209

 To make the student understand the flow of Concept- Program-Input-
Processing-Output
 To introduce low level language, translators, operating system
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Concept, Program, Input, Processing – Output:
Demo of simple high level language program to low level machine level
language program, Tracing their execution from high level to circuit level/
gate level, Overview of the Hardware Description Language (HDL), Designing
a set of elementary logic gates from primitive NAND gates. Design of binary
adders, Culminating in the construction of a simple ALU (Arithmetic–Logic
Unit) using logic gates, Design of memory hierarchy from elementary flip–flop
gates to registers and RAM units of arbitrary sizes using logic gates.
UNIT II
Introduction to Low Level Language:
Introducing an instruction set in both binary and assembly (symbolic)
versions, Writing some low-level assembly programs, Other details of
computer architecture, Basic language translation techniques: parsing,
symbol table, macro, assembly
UNIT III
Introduction to Virtual Machine:
The role of virtual machines in modern software architectures like Java and
.NET, Introduction of a typical VM language, Focusing on stack–based
arithmetic, Logical and memory access operations, VM abstraction and
implementation, Focusing on stack-based flow-of-control and subroutine
call-and-return techniques.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Compilers:
Context-free grammars and recursive parsing algorithms, Building a
syntax analyzer (tokenizer and parser), The syntax analyzer to generate
XML code reflecting the structure of the translated program, Code
generation, Low- level handling of arrays and objects.
UNIT V
Introduction to OS:
Discussion of OS/hardware and OS/software design trade–offs, and
time/space efficiency considerations, Design and implementation of OS,
memory management, string processing, I/O handling algorithms.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Trace the fundamentals of digital logic design
CO2: Classify programming languages
CO3: Explore the use of compiler
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 210

CO4: Generate low level code for simple programs
CO5: Understand functionality of an operating systems
CO6: Design simple arithmetic and memory units
Textbooks:
1. Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken, “The Elements of Computing
System: Building a Modern Computer from First Principles”, MIT
Press, 2005.
Course Title Object Oriented Programming
Course Code (Credit) CS30022 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites C Programming
Course Objectives
 To understand the difference between structure-oriented and object-
oriented programming
 To know various object-oriented features
 To know exception handling and generic programming
 To test and debug solutions in C++
Course Contents:
Unit I
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming:
Object oriented programming concepts: Objects, Classes, Encapsulation and
abstraction, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Dynamic binding, Message passing;
C++ Programming basics: Character set, Keyword, Constant, Variable, Data
types, Operator & expression, Control structure (branching & looping),
typecasting, Array & strings, Streams based I/O, Type conversions and
casting, Name space, Scope resolution operator (::); Function: Parameter
passing (i) by value, (ii) by address, (iii) by reference, Inline function,
Function overloading, Default arguments.
Unit II
Class and Object:
Class and Object: Defining class with functions and data members, Creating
& deleting objects by using new and delete operators respectively, Array of
Objects, Objects as function argument, Static Data members and member
functions, Function with default arguments, Function overloading;
Constructor and Destructors: Definition of constructors and its uses, Types
of constructors: Default constructor, Parameterized constructor, Copy
constructor, Constructor with dynamic allocation, Dynamic Constructors,
Constructor Overloading, Destructors.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 211

Unit III
Inheritance:
Concept of inheritance: Defining derived and base classes, Class hierarchies,
public, private, and protected derivations; Types of Inheritance: Single
Inheritance, Multilevel Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Hierarchical
Inheritance, Hybrid Inheritance, Virtual base class: Function overriding,
Constructors/Destructors in derived classes: Constructors invocation and
data members initialization in derived classes, Member classes: classes within
classes.
Unit IV
Polymorphism:
Operator overloading: Overloading unary operators, Binary operators,
overloading binary operators using friend function and member function,
Rules for overloading operators; Polymorphism: Introduction to pointers:
Pointers to objects, Pointer to derived class object, This pointer, Compile time
polymorphism: Review of Function Overloading and Operator overloading;
Run time polymorphism: Virtual functions, Pure virtual functions, Abstract
class, Virtual constructors and destructors
Unit V
Exception Handling, Templates, Files and Streams:
Exception Handling: Basics of Exception Handling, Exception Handling
Mechanism: The keyword try, Throw and catch. Templates: Need of template,
Class Templates: Definition, Class Template with multiple parameters,
Function Templates: Definition, Function Template with multiple parameters.
Files and Streams: Introduction to file handling: text file Vs. binary file,
Hierarchy of file stream classes: Functions of File Stream classes, Steps to
process a File in a program. Different functions used in file, File
modes(Sequential and random), File pointers and their Manipulations, Error
handling during file operation
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Compare the features between structure-oriented and object-oriented
programming
CO2: Develop object-oriented programming language like C++ and associated
libraries to develop object-oriented programs.
CO3: Apply various object-oriented features like class, object, inheritance,
data abstraction, encapsulation polymorphism to solve various computing
problems
CO4: Design application using operator-overloading, contracture and
destructor
CO5: Apply exception handling and use built-in classes from STL
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 212

CO6: Implement, test and debug solutions in C++.
Textbooks:
1. Object Oriented Programming with C++, Reema Thareja, OXFORD
University Press, Revised First Edition, 2018.
2. Object Oriented Programming with C++, E.Balaguruswamy, McGraw
Hill Education; Seventh edition 2017.
Reference Books :
1. C++ completes reference, Herbert Schildt, MGH, 10th Edition, 2002
2. C++ How to Program, Deitel and Deitel, Pearson Education, 10th
Edition, 2011.
3. Programming in C++ Ashok N Kamthane, Pearson Education, 2nd
Edition, 2003
Course Title Fundamentals of Data Structures
Course Code (Credit) CS30024 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To find the Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
 To understand the various techniques of sorting and searching
 To design and implement arrays, stacks, queues, and linked lists
 To understand the complex data structures such as trees and graphs
 To solve real life problems
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Development of Algorithms, Notations and analysis, Storage structures for
arrays, Sparse matrices, Stacks and Queues: Representations and
applications.
UNIT II
Linked List, Stacks, and Queues:
Linked Lists, Linked stacks and queues, Operations on polynomials, Doubly
linked lists, Circularly linked lists, Dynamic storage management, Garbage
collection and compaction.
UNIT III
Trees:
Tree representation, Binary Trees, Binary search trees, Tree traversal,
Expression manipulation, Symbol table construction, Height balanced trees,
AVL trees.
UNIT IV
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 213

Graphs:
Graphs, Representation of graphs, BFS, DFS, Topological sort, String
representation and manipulations, Pattern matching.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use the concepts of data structure, data type and abstract data type to
develop solutions for engineering problems.
CO2: Develop programs to implement linear data structures such as stacks,
queues, linked lists, etc.
CO3: Apply the concept of trees and graph data structures in real world
scenarios
CO4: Comprehend the implementation of sorting and searching algorithms
CO5: Compare Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
CO6: Effectively choose the data structure that efficiently models the
information in a problem.
Textbooks:
1. J. P. Tremblay, P. G. Sorenson, “An Introduction to Data Structures
with Applications”, Second Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 1981.
2. M. Tenenbaum, Augestien, “Data Structures using C”, Third Edition,
Pearson Education, 2007.
3. Mark Allen Weiss, “Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C”,
Third Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2006.
Reference Book:
1. Sartaj Sahni, “Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++”,
Universities Press (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2008.
Course Title Scientific And Technical Writing
Course Code (Credit) EX20003 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
Technical documents take many forms depending on their purpose and the
audience. A technical document can be a project proposal, minutes of a
meeting, an advertisement in a newspaper, or even a research paper. A
scientific document is a form of technical document where both the author
and the audience are experts. The writing styles and the document density of
technical documents depend on the nature of the document. The objective of
this subject is to train the students in the art and science of writing a range of
scientific and technical documents.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 214

Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Forms and features of creative, technical, scientific, and science writing;
Audience types (general and specific experts, technicians, managers,
laypersons, and mixed audience); Examples of documents for technical,
professional, and scientific communications; Characteristics of effective
technical writing: Accuracy, clarity, conciseness, coherence, appropriateness,
and readability.
UNIT II
Language Issues:
Revisiting English grammar; Punctuation (period, comma, colon, semicolon,
question mark, exclamatory mark, apostrophe, quotation marks, hyphen,
dash, parentheses, and brackets); Mechanics (capitalization, italics,
abbreviations, acronyms); Latin terms used popularly in English texts;
Informal and colloquial English; Dangling modifiers, Faulty parallelism,
Judicious use of common words and phrases; Active and passive voice;
Nominalization; Common English errors; Pitfalls in writing; Adapting texts to
issues of gender, race, and ethnicity; and Guarding against Plagiarism.
Paragraphing: Unity of idea, topic sentence, logical and verbal bridges through
use of signposts, transitions, and link words; Patterns of development of an
idea; and Lists.
UNIT III
Structure of Scientific Documents:
Prefatory Materials: Title, Copyright Notice, Declaration and Certificates,
Abstract, Keywords, Acknowledgements and Conflict of Interest Statement,
Symbols and Abbreviations, and Table of Contents.
Body of Scientific Documents: Introductory Materials—Context, problem
and current response, research questions, hypotheses, and objectives and
scope; Literature Review—Presentation styles, citations and referencing
systems, quoting, paraphrasing, and summarizing; Materials and Methods—
Mathematical Materials: Methodology, methods, tools, and techniques;
Quantitative, qualitative, experimental, and mixed methods; Numbers and
numerals, engineering and scientific notations of numbers, mathematical
operators, equations, flowcharts, algorithms, SI units, significant digits and
order of magnitude, figures, tables, and photographs; Experimental
apparatus, materials, specifications, measuring instruments, procedure, data
analysis; Concluding Materials—Conclusions, implications, generalization,
limitations, scope for further work, and contributions of the work.
End Matters: References, Appendixes, and Supplementary materials.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 215

UNIT IV
Structure of Selected Technical Documents:
PowerPoint presentation, Abstract of a paper, Laboratory reports, Progress
report, Project proposal, Minutes of a meeting, Brochure, and News items.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Realize the need to articulate the purpose of the document, identify its
audience, and decide the density of information to be included in
scientific and technical documents;
CO2 :Internalize the art and science of scientific and technical writing;
CO4 :Make appropriate use of crisp language, illustrations, and symbols.
CO4 :Distinguish between bad and good writing. (Analyze and Evaluate)
CO5: Prepare a variety of scientific and technical documents, including
laboratory and project reports; and
CO6:Write these documents in an accurate, clear, concise, coherent,
appropriate, and readable manner.
Reading materials:
1. Lecture notes on Scientific and Technical Writing
2. Alred, G. J., C. T. Brusaw, and W. E. Oliu (2008), Handbook of
Technical Writing, St. Martin's Press, New York, Ninth Edition.
3. Angelika H. Hofmann (2014), Scientific Writing and Communication,
Papers, Proposals, and Presentations, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
4. Duke Graduate School Scientific Writing Resource
(https://sites.duke.edu/scientificwriting/).
5. Gerald. J. Alred, Charles. T. Brusaw, and Walter. E. Oliu (2008),
Handbook of Technical Writing, St. Martin's Press, New York, Ninth
Edition.
6. OWL, The Purdue Online Writing Laboratory,
https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/.
7. Perelman, L. C., J. Paradis, and E. Barrett (1998), The Mayfield
Handbook of Technical and Scientific Writing, Mayfield Publishing (ed.),
Available free at http://www.mhhe.com/mayfieldpub/tsw/toc.htm,
Mayfield Publishing Company, Inc., 1280 Villa Street, Mountain View,
CA 94041, 415.960.3222, <http://www.mayfieldpub.com>,
<mailto:hypertext@mayfieldpub.com>
8. Rubens, P. (2001), Science and Technical Writing: A Manual of Style,
2nd Edition, Routledge, New York.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 216

Course Title
Industry 4.0 Technologies
Course Code (Credit) EX20001 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course objectives:
The current manufacturing industries and businesses are moving from the
third industrial revolution of the computers and automation to the fourth
where the automation becomes even smarter fueled by data analytic and
artificial intelligence. This course is designed to offer learners an introduction
to use of Internet and Digital technology for better manufacturing and
business. Learners will gain deep insights into how smartness is being
harnessed from data and appreciate what needs to be done in order to
overcome some of the challenges.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
The Fourth Industrial Revolution, Difference between conventional
automation and Industry 4.0, Case Studies: Health, Agriculture,
Manufacturing
UNIT II
Industry 4.0 and its components:
Internet of Things (IoT) & Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), Internet of
Services, Value chains in manufacturing companies, Digital Twins
UNIT III
Digital Manufacturing and Design:
Cyber Physical Systems and Next Generation sensors, Collaborative Platform
and Product Life-cycle Management, Robotics and Automation
UNIT IV
Industrial IoT:
Cloud Computing, Big Data Analytic, AI & ML, Virtual and Augmented
Reality, Block-chain
UNIT V
Challenges & Opportunities in Industry 4.0: A Digital Strategy alongside
Resource Scarcity, Standards and Data security, Financing conditions,
availability of skilled workers, Comprehensive broadband infra- structure,
Legal framework, protection of corporate data, liability, handling personal
data.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 217

CO1: Understand the key components and enablers of Industry 4.0
Technology
CO2: Appreciate the smartness in Smart Factories, smart products and
smart Services.
CO3: Outline Smart Factory technologies and their role in an Industry 4.0
world
CO4: Outline IoT technology and scope of implementing IoT in Industries
and businesses.
CO5: Comprehend distributed cyber-physical and digital manufacturing
system
CO6: Demonstrate the opportunities, challenges brought about by Industry
4.0 and how organizations and individuals should prepare to reap the
benefits
Textbooks:
1. D. Pyo, J. Hwang, and Y. Yoon, Tech Trends of the 4th Industrial
Revolution, Mercury Learning & Information publisher, 2021.
2. Bruno S. Sergi, Elena G. Popkova, Aleksei V. Bogoviz, and Tatiana N.
Litvinova Understanding Industry 4.0 : AI, the Internet of Things, and the
Future of Work, Pub: Emerald Publishing Limited, 2019
Reference Books:
1. S. Misra, A. Mukherjee, and A. Roy Introduction to IoT. Cambridge
University Press, 1st edn. 2021
2. Dac-Nhuong Le, Chung Van Le, Jolanda G. Tromp , Gia Nhu Nguyen,
Emerging Technologies for Health and Medicine: Virtual Reality,
Augmented Reality, Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Robotics,
Industry 4.0, John Wiley publisher, 2018
3. Alasdair Gilchrist, Industry 4.0: The Industrial Internet of Things, Apress
Berkeley publisher, CA 1st ed 2016.
Course Title Engineering Economics
Course Code (Credit) HS30101(L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of Engineering Economics is to aid in decision-making by
focusing on the economic implications of technical analysis. It is committed to
making operational level decisions and solving problems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Economics and Engineering Economics:
Basic concepts of Engineering Economics: Demand Analysis, Supply Analysis,
Market Equilibrium. Revenue Analysis. Demand Forecasting- Quantitative
Methods, Consumer’s Equilibrium.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 218

UNIT II
Production and Cost Analysis:
Short Run and Long Run Production Functions, Producer’s Equilibrium
condition. Cobb-Douglas Production Function.
Cost Concepts: Short Run and Long Run Cost analyses. Break-Even Analysis.
Market: Concepts and Types;Perfect Competition, Monopoly
UNIT III
Time Value of Money:
Interest Formulae and their applications with cash flow diagram. Evaluation
of Investment Proposals - Present Worth, Future worth and Annual
Equivalent Method of comparison
UNIT IV
Economic Appraisal Techniques:
Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return(IRR) ,Cost Benefit analysis.
Depreciation calculation; Meaning and Definition, Methods.
UNIT V
Macroeconomic policies:
Functions of commercial banks and central bank, Fundamentals of Business
cycle, Macroeconomic policies for stabilization.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Comprehend the significance of different components of Engineering
Economics,
CO2 : Analyze the basic economic concepts required for engineers and
managers,
CO3 : Develop the problem solving aptitude in the students through practical
and case problems,
CO4 : Decide the feasibility of a particular project by the application of different
project evaluation Techniques,
CO5 : Use the economic tools in the decision making process, and
CO6 : Survey the current macroeconomic situations in the economy.
Textbooks:
1. Dominick Salvatore,Siddartha K.Rastogi, Managerial Economics:
Principles and Worldwide Applications, Oxford University Press, ISBN
9780199467068 , 9th Edition,2020
2. D N Dwivedi, H L Bhatia, & S N Maheswari, Engineering Economics:,
Vikas Publishing House, Noida, ISBN:978-93-5674-625-1, 2nd Edition
2023.
3. James Riggs, David D.Bedworth and Sabah U.Randhawa ,Engineering
Economics–, 4th Edition, McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited,
New Delhi, 2016.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 219

Reference Books:
1. William A. McEachern and Simrit Kaur Micro ECON-A South-Asian
Perspective-, Cengage Learning, 2013.
2. Yogesh Maheshwari,Managerial Economics- 3rdEdition, PHI Learning
Private Limited,2014.
3. A. Khan, Arshad Noor Siddiquee, Brajesh Kumar,Engineering Economy-
Zahid Pearson Publication, 2012.
4. R.Panneerselvam Engineering Economics –, Pub: PHI Learning Private
Limited, New Delhi, 9thEdition, 2008.
5. G.S Gupta Managerial Economics, , Tata McGraw Hill Education Private
Limited, 2nd Edition, 2011.
6. D.M.Mithani, Managerial Economics – Theory and Applications –Himalaya
Publication, New Delhi, 6th Edition, 2009.
7. S.B.Gupta, R7. Monetary Economics-Institutions, Theory and Policy-
Publication: S.Chand, 1995.
8. R.D. Gupta R8. Macro – Economics –, Publication: Kalyani Publication,
1994.
Course Title Universal Human Values
Course Code (Credit) HS30401 (L-T-P-Cr : 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to develop a holistic perspective based on self-
exploration, understand the harmony in the human being, strengthen self-
reflection, and develop commitment and courage to act.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Need, Basic Guidelines, Content and Process for Value Education:
Purpose and motivation for the course, recapitulation from Universal Human
Values-I. Self-Exploration–what is it? - Its content and process; ‘Natural
Acceptance’ and Experiential Validation- as the process for self-exploration.
Continuous Happiness and Prosperity- A look at basic Human Aspirations.
Right understanding, Relationship and Physical Facility- the basic
requirements for fulfillment of aspirations of every human being with their
correct priority. Understanding Happiness and Prosperity correctly- A critical
appraisal of the current scenario. Method to fulfil the above human
aspirations: understanding and living in harmony at various levels. Include
practice sessions to discuss natural acceptance in human being as the innate
acceptance for living with responsibility (living in relationship, harmony and
co-existence) rather than as arbitrariness in choice based on liking-disliking
UNIT II
Understanding Harmony in the Human Being - Harmony in Myself! :
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 220

Understanding human being as a co-existence of the sentient ‘I’ and the
material ‘Body’. Understanding the needs of Self (‘I’) and ‘Body’ - happiness
and physical facility. Understanding the Body as an instrument of ‘I’ (I being
the doer, seer and enjoyer). Understanding the characteristics and activities of
‘I’ and harmony in ‘I’. Understanding the harmony of I with the Body: Sanyam
and Health; correct appraisal of Physical needs, meaning of Prosperity in
detail. Programs to ensure Sanyam and Health. Include practice sessions to
discuss the role others have played in making material goods available to me.
Identifying from one’s own life. Differentiate between prosperity and
accumulation. Discuss program for ensuring health vs dealing with disease
UNIT III
Understanding Harmony in the Family and Society- Harmony in
HumanHuman Relationship:
Understanding values in human-human relationship; meaning of Justice
(nine universal values in relationships) and program for its fulfillment to
ensure mutual happiness; Trust and Respect as the foundational values of
relationship . Understanding the meaning of Trust; Difference between
intention and competence . Understanding the meaning of Respect, Difference
between respect and differentiation; the other salient values in relationship.
Understanding the harmony in the society (society being an extension of
family): Resolution, Prosperity, fearlessness (trust) and co-existence as
comprehensive Human Goals. Visualizing a universal harmonious order in
society- Undivided Society, Universal Order- from family to world family.
Include practice sessions to reflect on relationships in family, hostel and
institute as extended family, real life examples, teacher-student relationship,
goal of education etc. Gratitude as a universal value in relationships. Discuss
with scenarios. Elicit examples from students’ lives
UNIT IV
Understanding Harmony in the Nature and Existence - Whole existence
as Coexistence:
Understanding the harmony in the Nature. Interconnectedness and mutual
fulfilment among the four orders of naturerecyclability and selfregulation in
nature. Understanding Existence as Co-existence of mutually interacting
units in allpervasive space. Holistic perception of harmony at all levels of
existence. Include practice sessions to discuss human being as cause of
imbalance in nature (film “Home” can be used), pollution, depletion of
resources and role of technology etc.
UNIT V
Implications of the above Holistic Understanding of Harmony on
Professional Ethics:
Natural acceptance of human values. Definitiveness of Ethical Human
Conduct. Basis for Humanistic Education, Humanistic Constitution and
Humanistic Universal Order. Competence in professional ethics: a) Ability to
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 221

utilize the professional competence for augmenting universal human order b)
Ability to identify the scope and characteristics of people friendly and eco-
friendly production systems, c) Ability to identify and develop appropriate
technologies and management patterns for above production systems. Case
studies of typical holistic technologies, management models and production
systems. Strategy for transition from the present state to Universal Human
Order: a) At the level of individual: as socially and ecologically responsible
engineers, technologists and managers b) At the level of society: as mutually
enriching institutions and organizations. Sum up. Include practice Exercises
and Case Studies will be taken up in Practice (tutorial) Sessions eg. To
discuss the conduct as an engineer or scientist etc.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the concept of value education and its need,
CO2: Apply their knowledge on value education for apt self-assessment,
CO3: Comprehend human-human relationship,
CO4: Build holistic perception of harmony at all levels of existence,
CO5: Develop the sense of natural acceptance of human values, and
CO6: Create people friendly and eco-friendly environment.
Textbooks:
1. Human Values and Professional Ethics by R R Gaur, R Sangal, G P
Bagaria, Excel Books, New Delhi, 2010
Reference Books:
1. Jeevan Vidya: Ek Parichaya, A Nagaraj, Jeevan Vidya Prakashan,
Amarkantak, 1999.
2. A.N. Tripathi, Human ValuesNew Age Intl. Publishers, New Delhi, 2004.
3. The Story of Stuff (Book).
4. Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ,The Story of My Experiments with
Truth
5. Small is Beautiful - E. F Schumacher.
6. Slow is Beautiful - Cecile Andrews
7. Economy of Permanence - J C Kumarappa
8. Bharat Mein Angreji Raj - PanditSunderlal
9. Rediscovering India - by Dharampal
10. Hind Swaraj or Indian Home Rule - by Mohandas K. Gandhi
11. India Wins Freedom - Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad
12. Vivekananda - Romain Rolland (English)13. Gandhi - Romain
Rolland (English)
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 222

Course Title Engineering Professional Practice
Course Code (Credit) EX40003 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objective:
Engineers are expected to perform their tasks responsibly and ethically,
following professional standards and guidelines. This subject allows the
students to understand the roles and responsibilities of engineers in society,
learn professional standards, codes of ethics, issues concerning employment
contracts and other legal matters, and skills of working in teams, and to
effectively communicate. The subject will be offered jointly by the faculty
members of various schools of technology and will be coordinated by the
School of Mechanical Engineering.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Engineering and Engineer:
Engineering as a discipline and a profession; Attributes and functions of a
practicing engineer; and Engineer as problem solver, designer, and change
agent.
UNIT II
Selected Functions of Engineering:
Designing for safety and reliability; Quality and productivity management;
Dealing with problem complexity, uncertainty, risk, and ambiguity; Project
management; and managerial functions such as planning, organizing,
motivating, and accounting.
UNIT III
Professional Aspects of Engineering:
Accreditation, certification, and licensing; Ethical issues: Ethics and morality,
ethical dilemmas, codes of ethics, professional conduct, nature and role of
professional societies, engineering standards; Legal issues—Legal forms of
business organizations, employment contracts, trademarks, patents,
copyrights, trade secrets, professional liability, contractual agreements,
environment and information technology laws, and international legal
framework such as WTO.
UNIT-IV
Group Dynamics:
Individual cognition; Dynamics of working in teams/groups; Interacting with
stakeholders; Dealing with multicultural environments; Team and group
communication; and Negotiation and conflict resolution.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 223

CO1 : Know (a) the features of engineering as a profession, (b) the roles and
responsibilities of engineers in society, and (c) the skills for working in teams,
CO2: Realize the use of professional standards, codes of ethics, legal
provisions surrounding engineering functions,
CO3 : Apply the above-stated standards, codes, legal provisions, and group
communication skills in their decision-making situations,
CO4 : Break down a complex problem into smaller manageable tasks,
CO5 : Compare among alternatives in situations of uncertainty, risk, and
ambiguity.
CO6 : Design engineering solutions to industrial environmental and social
problems.
Textbooks:
1. Shrestha, R. K. and Shrestha, S. K. (2020), Textbooks: of Engineering
Professional Practice, 3rd Edition, Heritage Publishers and Distributors Pvt.
Ltd.
Reference Books
1. Habash, R. (2019), Professional Practice in Engineering and Computing:
Preparing for Future Careers, 1st Edition, Boca Raton: CRC Press.
2. Walesh, S. G. (2012), Engineering Your Future: The Professional
Practice of Engineering, 3rd Edition, Wiley.
3. Subramaniam, R. (2017), Professional Ethics, 2nd Edition, Oxford
University Press
4. Lectures note on Engineering Professional Practice provide by
Concerned faculty members.
Course Title Research Methods And Ethics
Course Code (Credit) EX40001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to introduce to the undergraduate students the
various elements and methods of ethically conducting a piece of scientific
research.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to research:
Structure of research: Scientific method and Engineering design cycle,
Defining and scoping Research problems, Formulating research objectives
and research questions.
UNIT II
Literature Review:
Searching for literature; Narrative and systematic literature review;
Summarizing, paraphrasing, and quoting; and Referencing styles.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 224

UNIT III
Design of Experiments:
Basic Principles of randomization, replication, and Blocking; Factors and
Responses; Analysis of variance, Experiments with blocking factors, and
Factorial designs.
UNIT IV
Data Analytics:
Data pre-processing; Data visualization; Tests of hypothesis; Decision
trees; and Artificial neural networks.
UNIT V
Theoretical Models:
Typology of models; Optimization models, forecasting models, and control
models; Monte Carlo simulation; Genetic Algorithm; Model verification and
validation; and Measurement and uncertainty analysis.
UNIT VI
Drawing Inferences:
Drawing inferences, Generalizing, Finding potential applications,
Imagining future scope, and Highlighting novelty of research.
UNIT VII
Research Ethics:
Ethics and morality; Utilitarian and deontological theories of ethics;
Fabrication, falsification, plagiarism, and questionable research practices;
Issues related to privacy and confidentiality; and Ethical issues related to
publications
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Select research topics and formulate research questions,
CO2: Conduct a literature search and make a review of literature,
CO3: Get acquainted with a range of qualitative, quantitative, experimental, and
theoretical methods of Research,
CO4: Become familiar with the techniques of data collection, analysis, and
interpretation,
CO5: Understand the importance of research ethics and the implications of the
broader impact of research, and
CO6 : Conduct research with honesty and integrity.
Reading Materials :
1. Dunn, P. K. (2021), Scientific Research and Methodology: Tutorials,
An Introduction to Quantitative Research and Statistics in Science,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 225

Engineering, and Health: Tutorials, Available free at
https://bookdown.org/pkaldunn/SRM-tutorials/.
2. Dunn, P. K. (2021), Scientific Research and Methodology: Software,
An Introduction to Quantitative Research and Statistics in Science,
Engineering, and Health: Using Software, Available free at
https://bookdown.org/pkaldunn/SRM-software/. (Uses Jamovi and
SPSS Software, Jamovi is a freely downable software)
Lectures note on Research Methods and Ethics provide by Concerned faculty
members.
Course Title Building Drawing, Estimation & Costing
Course Code (Credit) CE28001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
This subject is designed to enrich the basic knowledge of engineering students
to develop building drawings. The subject will also give students exposure
about quantity estimation and costing of the building.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Building Drawing:
Construction Standards and drawing techniques in projects. Introduction to
basic principles of Computer-Aided Design (CAD), Orthographic projection
including sectional views of buildings and parts of buildings and building
details, e.g. foundations, walls (including openings), jambs, sills, lintels and
arches, floors and roofs, doors and windows, simple stairs. Preparation of
simple working drawings and details from free-hand sketches.
UNIT I
Estimation:
Estimation, units, item work, different kinds of estimates, different methods
of estimation, estimation of materials in building, with different sections of
walls, foundation. Bar Bending Schedule, Estimation of finishing works.
UNIT II
Specification of Works:
Necessity of specification types of specification, general specification,
specification of bricks, cement, sand, reinforcement, detailed specification for
earthwork, cement, concrete, brickwork, flooring, D.P.C, R.C.C, cement
plastering, white and colour washing, distempering, painting.
UNIT III
Rate analysis:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 226

Procedure of rate analysis for items - Earth work, concrete works, R.C.C
works, reinforced brick work, plastering.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1: prepare the layout plan, elevation of building
CO2: understand the building drawings and details
CO3: learn the basic concept of estimation and its application in real
construction projects.
CO4: analyze the rates of individual items for the preparation of the
estimates.
CO5: prepare schedule of quantities required to be attached with the tender
documents.
CO6: develop critical thinking ability to optimize the building construction
cost.
Textbooks:
1. B. N. Dutta, Estimating and Costing in Civil Engineering – Theory &
Practice, CBS Publishers & Distributors Pvt Ltd, 28th Edition, 2020.
2. M. Chakraborty, Estimating & Costing, Specification and Valuation in
Civil Engineering, Chakraborty, 29th Edition, 2006, ISBN-10:
818530436X.
Reference Books:
1. B. S. Patil, Civil Engineering Contracts and Estimates, Universities
Press, 3rd Edition 2006, ISBN-10: 8173715599.
Course Title Gis & Gps Applications
Course Code (Credit) CE28003 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to understand the GIS principles, applications,
preparation of study maps, creation of interpolation maps, delineation of
watershed, explain the functions of GPS and operation of GPS.
Course Contents:
 Overview of Geographic Information System (GIS)
 Familiarization to ArcGIS Interface
 Layout of study area
 Preparation of interpolation map
 Watershed delineation
 Remote sensing satellites
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 227

 Basics of Global position system
 Basic operations of GPS Handset
 GPS field surveying and data processing
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to
CO1: explain the fundamentals of GIS
CO2: understand the operations of ArcGIS tools and prepare the layout of
study area
CO3: create interpolation maps
CO4: delineate watershed using ArcGIS
CO5: describe the principles and functions of GPS
CO6: operate GPS in the field for navigation
Reference Books:
1. Principles of geographical information systems by P.A. Burrough and R.
A. McDonnell, Oxford University Press, UK.
2. Geographic information systems and science by M.F. Goodchild, P.A.
Longley, D.J. Maguire and D.W. Rhind, John Wiley & Sons Ltd.,
England.
3. Global Positioning system: Principles and Applications by
SatheeshGopi, McGraw Hill Education.
Course Title Industrial Wiring and Control Panel Design
Course Code (Credit) EE28011 / L- T- P-Cr: 0-0-2-1
Course Objective:
This vocational course will provide an overview of electrical occupations,
including the training and the employment options available in electrical
industry. It is also designed to provide related training in the electrical trade
that will give students the proper coursework in installation and designing of
control panel.
Course Contents:
Industrial wiring and Control Panel designing. (THEORY) QElectrotech software.
Hands on Practice:
1. Design multiwire circuit for a direct motor starter (DoL) with one
operating (forward) direction using QElectrotech software.
2. Design multiwire circuit for a direct motor starter (DoL) with two
operating (forward &reverse) direction using QElectrotech software.
3. Design multiwire circuit for a Star – Delta motor stator with one
operating (forward ) direction using QElectrotech software.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 228

4. Design multiwire circuit for a Star – Delta motor stator with two
operating (forward &reverse) direction using QElectrotech software.
5. Design &connect for a direct motor starter (DoL) with one operating
(forward) direction in modular set up .
6. Design &connect for a direct motor starter (DoL) with two operating
(forward & reverse) direction in modular set up .
7. Design &connect for a Star – Delta motor stator with one operating
(forward ) direction in modular set up.
8. Design &connect for a Star – Delta motor stator with two operating
(forward& reverse ) direction in modular set up.
9. Install & wire for a direct motor starter (DoL) with one operating (forward)
direction in Industrial Control Panel.
10. Install & wire for a direct motor starter (DoL) with two operating
(forward &reverse) direction in Industrial Control Panel.
11. Install & wire for a Star – Delta motor stator with one operating
(forward ) direction in Industrial Control Panel.
12. Install & wire for a Star – Delta motor stator with two operating
(forward &reverse ) direction in Industrial Control Panel.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Realise the purpose and general principles of control components and circuits
CO2: Install Industrial wiring circuits according to given specification and
plan.
CO3: Analyze circuit operations on basic motors.(3ø induction Motor)
CO4: Interpret and install circuits according to rules and regulations of the National
Electrical Codebook.
CO5: Connect motor controllers for specific applications with emphasis on safety
practices and in accordance with National Electrical Code (NEC) requirements.
CO6: Select and size contactors, relays and timing relays and overload relays both
physically and schematically and describe their operating principles.
References:
1. Installation, commissioning and maintenance of electrical equipment by
Tarlok Singh.
2. Industrial Electrical Systems by B. P. PATIL and M. A. CHAUDHARI
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 229

Course Title Installation, operation and maintenance of
solar power system
Course Code (Credit) EE28013 / L- T- P-Cr: 0-0-2-1
Course Objective:
To impart job-oriented training to students and make them well convergent on
Installation, operation & maintenance of solar PV system. This vocational
course is based on study of solar photovoltaic (PV) cells, modules, and system
components; electrical circuits; PV system design and sizing for use on
homes, commercial building etc., understanding energy conversion from
sunlight to electricity, and working with solar conversion equipment. This
Course will give students the book knowledge and hands on experience
needed to become entrepreneur / self-employed.
Course Contents:
Designing of solar panel and installation (THEORY)
1. Homer
2. PVSYST
3. Helioscope
Hands on Practice:
1. To demonstrate the I-V and P-V Characteristics of PV module with
varying radiation and temperature level.
2. To demonstrate the I-V and P-V characteristics of series and parallel
combination of PV modules.
3. To show the effect of variation in tilt angle on PV module power.
4. To demonstrate the effect of shading on module output power.
5. To demonstrate the working of diode as bypass diode and blocking
diode.
6. To draw the charging and discharging characteristics of battery.
7. Observe the output waveform of the inverter in auto mode.
8. Workout power flow calculations of standalone PV system of AC load
with battery.
9. Workout power flow calculations of standalone PV system of DC load
with battery.
10. Find the MPP manually by varying the resistive load acrossthe PV
panel.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1:Demonstrate and apply the knowledge of solar electric systems terms
and concepts
CO2:Size and design a photo voltaic system.
CO3:Mount, ground, position, install, wire and connect a photo voltaic
system.
CO4:Test voltage generated by photo voltaic system.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 230

CO5:To learn different types of solar PV modules and batteries used in solar
PV plant
CO6:Design of solar PV plant based on estimated loads.
References:
1. Solar Photo Voltaic Technology and Systems by Chetan Singh Solanki
2. Non-Conventional Energy Resources by B.H.Khan.
3. Solar Energy - Principles of Thermal Collection and Storage by
P.Sukhatme.
4. Solar Energy: Fundamentals, Design, Modelling and Applications by
G.N.Tiwari.
Course Title Domestic Wiring and Home Automation
Course Code (Credit) EE28015 / L- T- P-Cr: 0-0-2-1
Course Objective:
This vocational course will provide an overview of electrical occupations,
including the training and the employment options available in electrical
consultancy. It is also designed to provide related training in the electrical
wing that will give students the proper coursework in installation and
designing of domestic wiring and home automation.
To develop electrical wiring skills in students through systematic training that
would enable the students to construct and test various electrical circuits
using appropriate electrician tools, wires, protective devices and wiring
accessories as per IS standards.
Course Contents:
Domestic wiring and Home Automation. (THEORY)
QElectrotech software.
Hands on Practice:
1. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a single switch
(SPST Switch) in circuit.
2. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a Double switch
(SPST Switch) in circuit.
3. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a power socket in
circuit.
4. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a controlled power
socket circuit in housing.
5. Perform the assembly, wiringand implementation of a two ways
switches (SPDT Switch) in circuit.
6. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a impulse relay in
circuit.
7. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a time switch in
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 231

circuit
8. Perform the assembly, the wiring and the implementation of a timer
lighting in circuit.
9. Perform the assembly, the wiring and the implementation of a twilight
switch in circuit in house or in a shop.
10. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a controlled
lighting in circuit (time switch, timer, twilight switch).
11. Perform the assembly, the wiring and the implementation of a
water heater in circuit.
12. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a central
impulse relay in circuit.
13. Study and implementation of Light sensitive switch.
14. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a fan in
circuit.
15. Perform the assembly, wiring and implementation of a
distribution panel.
16. Home automation using KNX technology.
17. Application of Load shedding contactor and programmable time
switch.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use appropriate electrician tools, wires, protective devices and wiring
accessories
CO2: Rig up wiring diagrams using conduit system of wiring.
CO3: Apply IS standards for electrical wiring
CO4: Prepare different types of wiring joints.
CO5: Well convergent in drawing electrical wiring circuit.
CO6. Enhancement of knowledge regarding specification and application of different
electrical devices.
References:
1. Home Automation - A Smart Home Guide: The Beginner’s Manual Including
Google Home, Echo Dot and Amazon Alexa. Easy Instructions, Directions and
Commands ... and Home Automation Guide Series Book 1) Kindle Edition
2. Home Automation and Wiring by James Gerhart
Course Title Cyber Physics Application in Industrial IoT
Course Code (Credit) EE28017 / L- T- P-Cr: 0-0-2-1
Course Objective:
The students will utilize the principles of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and
Internet of Things (IoT) to develop applications, implement IoT applications by
selecting appropriate hardware and software platform and also Develop IoT
applications using open-source platforms.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 232

Course Contents:
UNIT I
CYBER PHYSICAL SYSTEM. (THEORY)
1. CPS Realworld.
2. Design and Validation of CPS.
3. Smart city application CPS.
4. CPS Hardware Platforms (Process, Sensors and Actuators).
UNIT II
Industry 4.0.
1. IOT Fundamentals and protocols including layers.
2. Sensor and Interfacing.
Hands on Practice:
1. Architecture and pin diagram of Arduino UNO/MEGA and ESP8266
2. IDE installation for open source C++ or Phython
3. Analog and Digital voltage sensing and processing through Firmware
4. Analog and Digital voltage based actuator through Firmware
5. Display OLED/Seven segment integration through IDE
6. PCB Design Concept and implementation with uC.
7. Implementation of UI/UX through RestAPI based Thingspeak
8. DATA logging and Generating CSV through RestAPI
9. Writing a Firmware for ESP-8266 or NODEMCU(programming based
knowledge)
10. IoT based transformer / condition monitoring system
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Basics of cyber physics components
CO2: Understanding of sensors and actuators
CO3: Layout diagram of open source microcontroller board
CO4: Understanding of analog and digital I/O for cyber-physics
CO5: Understanding of different protocols for IoT connectivity
CO6: Basic architecture for IoT enabled Cyber Physics
References:
1. Designing the Internet of Things, Adrian McEwen (Author), Hakim Cassimally
2. Asoke K Talukder and Roopa R Yavagal,“Mobile Computing,” Tata McGraw
Hill, 2010.
3. Computer Networks; By:Tanenbaum, Andrew S; Pearson Education Pte. Ltd.,
Delhi, 4th Edition
4. Data and Computer Communications; By:Stallings, William; Pearson
Education Pte. Ltd., Delhi, 6th Edition
5. F. Adelstein and S.K.S. Gupta, “Fundamentals of Mobile and Pervasive
Computing,” McGraw Hill, 2009.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 233

Course Title Industrial Control and Remote Monitoring
Course Code (Credit) EE28019 / L- T- P-Cr: 0-0-2-
1
Course Objective:
To provide hands on experience in developing Industrial Control and remote
monitoring by using PLC (Programmable logic Controller), thus by utilizing it
in Process control applications
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Programmable logic Controller SYSTEM. (THEORY)
1. Introduction to Industrial Automation.
2. Introduction to PLC programmable logic controller
3. PLCs & related software and its major Components
4. Relay logic Hardware Platforms (Switches, Sensors and Actuators).
5. Study of Contactors, Timers, Counter and Comparator
UNIT II
Human Machine interface:
1. Introduction to HMI Communication with PLC
2. HMI tags and Assignments
3. Project on Industrial load sequential feedback control Using PLC HMI
Hands on Practice:
1. Introduction of PLC SOFTWARE as TIA Portal
2. Ladder Programming for Basic gates logics by using SPST Contacts
3. Ladder Programming on SPDT
4. Latching Concept and related Latching program
5. Study of program memory and Programming on Memory Bits
6. Study of TIMER BLOCKs and its Programming
7. Introduction to COMPARATOR BLOCK and its Programming
8. Introduction to COUNTER BLOCK and its Types with Programming
9. Project on Industrial Load OFF/ON control Using PLC and HMI
10. Introduction to analog Logic in PLC and its Programming
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Know about typical components of a Programmable Logic Controller
CO2: Know the concept of Electrical ladder logic and its relationship to PLC
instructions
CO3: Understand the concept of digital electronics and data acquisition
CO4: Program PLC logical switching circuits for industrial applications
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 234

CO5: Choose and utilize Timer, Counter, and other intermediate programming
functions
CO6: Design and program automated industrial production line
References:
1. Programmable logic Controller by Vijay R. Jadhav KHANNA PUBLISHERS
Second Edition 2012
2. Industrial Automation Using PLC,SCADA and DCS by R.G JamkarLaxmi
Publications Private Limited;
3. PLC and SCADA by Prof Rajesh Mehra and Er. Vikrant Vij Published by
University Science Press, 1st
4. Programmable logic Controller: Programming methods and Applications By
John R Hackworth and Frederick D. Hackworth Jr. PEARSON Edition: 1st
Edition, 2006
Course Title Computational Photography
Course Code (Credit) EC28001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
Computational photography (CP) is the fusion of computer graphics,
computer vision, optics and imaging. The role of CP is to overcome the
limitations of traditional cameras by combining imaging and computing to
enable new and improved ways to capture, represent and interact with the
physical world. The course provides and overview of elements photography,
which includes digital image capturing mechanisms, lighting controls, effect
of focal length and aperture and various lossy and lossless image storage
mechanisms. Objective is to briefly explain computational methods used to
enhance photographs.
Course Contents
UNIT I
Introduction to Computational Photography:
History of Photography and Computational Photography, Digital
Representation of Images, Cameras, Difference between Full frame, APSC and
Medium format sensors, scaling, crop sensor advantages/disadvantages
UNIT II
Digital photography:
Principle of Operation of DSLR camera, Aperture, ISO, Shutterspeed and
Angle Control, Camera Calibration and Tethering, Computational Cameras,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 235

Image Storage formats: Compressed vs uncompressed formats, Basics of
Lenses: Wide angle, Telephoto, Prime lenses, Macro lenses. Difference in
angle, Depth of field control
UNIT III
Computational Techniques:
Concept of Color, color models, noise, its types, image histogram, Image
Processing software: Licensed and Open Source
UNIT IV
Training on Computational Photography:
Shooting with wide angle lenses, Shooting with Telephoto lens, zooming,
changes in angle, Shooting with Prime lenses and constant aperture lenses,
Shooting with Macro lenses, microscopic photography
UNIT V
Training on Digital Imaging-I:
Photography Genres, Scene Composition, Dynamic Range improvement,
Portraits, Photographing scenes, crowd and people, Shooting Portraits, group
photos and events
Training on Digital Imaging-II:
Long exposure, Brenizer’s Method, Sports High Shutter speed, Burst, fisheye,
architecture photography, Macro, Basics of Long exposures, using polarizing
filters Shooting panorama, Brenizer’s method and other photographing
techniques Shooting sports, high shutter speed
Training on Digital Imaging-III:
Use of lights, soft box and flashes, guide number etc. , product photography,
computational photography,E-commerce photography, Use of Lights, Flash,
wireless flash, Basics of product photography, photography for e-commerce
and computational photography
Training on Post Processing-I:
RAW image processing, Basic adjustments and correction, Lens Distortion
and color correction using Adobe Photoshop, Monochrome image processing,
color image processing batch processing using Light-room
Training on Post Processing-II:
Image enhancement operations, noise removal, Artistic filtering, cosmetic
filtering, and other post processing methods. Post Processing III: Background
removal, artificial coloring.
Training on Post Processing-III:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 236

Open Source and free software for image post processing and computational
photography, their usage and capabilities.
Photography Ethics:
Photography ethics: empathy, consent, integrity, ethical decision making,
privacy
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO 1: Appreciate concept of photography, and digital camera technology
CO 2: Uunderstand types of cameras and their mechanisms
CO 3: Demonstrate computational image processing
CO 4: Apply computational photography methods for photo composition and
panoramic
CO5: Apply computational image processing for photography quality
enhancement
CO 6: Explain various image filtering techniques
Textbooks:
1. Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, 2nd ed by by Richard
Szeliski
Reference Books:
1. Computational Imaging Book, by AyushBansai, AchutaKadambi, and
Ramesh Raskar.
2. Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision, by Richard Hartley and
Andrew Zisserman.
3. Computer Vision: A Modern Approach, by David Forsyth and Jean
Ponce.
4. Foundations of 3D Computer Graphics, by Steven Gortler.
5. Digital Image Processing, by Rafael Gonzalez and Richard Woods.
6. Photography, by Barbara London and John Upton
Course Title Sound Engineering
Course Code (Credit) CE28003 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
It elaborately covers in various aspects of sound (physical and mechanical
behavior), equipment used for recording/ reproducing and basic idea for the
preparation of final sound track in film or television production.
Course Contents:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 237

1. Introduction to technology of sound
2. Analysis of prerecorded speech, music and effects
3. Observation of the installation of PA System in a large auditorium
4. Study and analysis of different microphones
5. Study the feature of 2 channel digital sound recorder
6. Study about the effect of loudness in relation with the distance from
source to the listener
7. Sound recording and reproduction practice by using recorder in PA
system chain
8. Study of sound in different environmental situation
9. Study and analysis on Modulated Radio wave AM and FM in Live
streaming radio stations
10. Study the effect of Bass and Treble (Concept of Equalization )
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Recognize, define, and explain the principles of sound engineering
related to signal flow, microphones, recording, mixing, production, and
mastering.
CO2: Demonstrate practical, imaginative understanding and fluency on
sound engineering technologies and procedures.
CO3: Solve problems independently, imaginatively, and creatively in the
field of sound engineering will be demonstrated by students.
CO4: Learn how to conduct research and have a critical comprehension
of sound engineering and its related fields.
CO5: Understand the basic techniques of sound recording.
CO6: Understand the working of different types microphone and
loudspeakers and their applications in industry.
Textbooks:
1. Sound Recording and Reproduction – Glyn Alkin
Reference Book:
1. Sound Assistance – Michael Talbot Smit
Course Title Sensors For Automation
Course Code (Credit) EC28005 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
Sensors and automation are revolutionizing the technology in the areas like
consumer electronics, automotive industry, healthcare, and in other settings.
The course will provide an opportunity for students to learn different sensors
and its application in real world problems. It will empower the students to
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 238

develop their knowledge regarding operation, application and integration of
sensors to enable the design and realization a complete systems.
Course Contents:
1. Introduction to microcontroller, platform of operations with basic
programming techniques
2. Interfacing of serial and parallel device with microcontroller
3. Interfacing of microcontroller with display devices
4. Use of ADC to interface various analog sensors with microcontroller
5. Introduction to sensor, measurement of physical parameters like
temperature and humidity
6. Application of ultrasonic and proximity sensor
7. Application of gas and pressure sensor
8. Application of IR sensor and RFID
9. Interfacing actuators to drive DC motor (application of touch switch as
actuators)
10. Implement sensor in final products for real time solution
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Learn about the microcontroller, its hardware interfacing and
programming
CO2: Understand the working principle and characteristics of different types
of sensor
CO3: Interface various sensor interfacing with microcontroller and display
devices
CO4: Understand the basic principles of analog to digital conversion and its
application with different sensors
CO5: Gain knowledge about various types of automation system
CO6: Develop and implement sensor for final products in real time
applications
Textbooks:
1. T. Karvinen, and K. Karvinen, Getting started with sensors, Shroff
Publishers, Kindle, Edition, 2014.
Reference Books:
1. J. S. Katre, Sensors in Automation, TechKnowledge Publications, 1st
Edition, 2023
2. D. Patranabis, Sensors and Transducers, PHI Learning, 2nd Edition,
2003.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 239

Course Title Pcb Design
Course Code (Credit) EC28007 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
Over the years, printed circuit board manufacturing has continued to grow in
order to keep up with the increasing demands of newer, faster, and more
complex electronic circuitry. This course will familiarize students to design,
simulate electronics circuit and fabricate PCB for prototyping using CAD tool.
This program is designed to provide a balanced foundation of theoretical
knowledge and practical skills in printed circuit board design.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Description of different Electronics Component and their Identification:
Passive and active components, component identification, Color code for
resistor and disc capacitors, Inductor and their types, simple air core and iron
core inductor design.
UNIT I
Circuit Design and Simulation using CAD tool (OrCAD): Design of a simple
electronics circuit using data sheet and circuit schematic and simulation.
UNIT II
Schematic to PCB transfer and routing:
Schematic to PCB transfer (assigning foot prints to various components,
transfer to PCB), routing, DRC, ERC, EMC
UNIT III
Screen Printing Procedure:
Preparation of screen, mask transfer
UNIT IV
PCB preparation and Checking of Routing:
transfer of layout to PCB using screen printing methods, etching, cleaning,
error checking of routing, component mounting, soldering
UNIT V
Testing and Verification:
Testing the circuit with the help of multi-meter and CRO
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: understand and evaluate different electronics components.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 240

CO2: create schematic and simulate the circuit using OrCAD or any other
CAD tools.
CO3: understand single- and double-layer PCB.
CO4: create and fabricate PCB and analyze the PCB using screen printing
method.
CO5: understand assembly of electronics component by soldering.
CO6: analyze and test the circuit for any error.
Textbooks:
1. Chris Robertson, Printed Circuit Board, PHI, 2003
2. Elaine Rhodes, Developing Printed Circuit Assemblies: From
Specifications to Mass Production, 2008, ISBN: 978-1435718760.
Reference Books:
1. Douglas Brooks, Signal Integrity Issues and Printed Circuit Board
Design, PHI, 2003.
2. Kraig Mitzner, Complete PCB Design Using OrCAD Capture and PCB
Editor, Newnes, 2009
Open source EDA Tool KiCad Tutorial : http://kicad-pcb.org/help/tutorials/
Course Title Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing)
Course Code (Credit) ME28011 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
Additive Manufacturing (AM) is a modern manufacturing technology also
known as 3D printing process, will provide a clear understanding about the
process, acceptability and usability in various field. AM technologies classified
on the basis material types will be focused with its real life applications with
advantages and disadvantages. Different types of errors associated with AM
and CAD technology will be discussed with suitable error minimization
processes. Various reverse engineering process will be discussed and
practically implemented with its real life applications.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Additive Manufacturing Technologies:
Need & Development of AM systems, AM process chain, Impact of AM and
Tooling on Product Development, Benefits, Applications, Digital prototyping,
Virtual prototyping.
Model Preparation using Solid Modelling Software.
UNIT II
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 241

Classification of Additive Manufacturing Technologies:
Classification of AM technologies on the basis of Materials types. Discussion
on various AM processes based solid, liquid and semi solid type of materials
along with its application, advantages and disadvantages.
Hands on practice for model creation and saving on particular file format.
UNIT III
Data Processing for AM Technologies:
Process planning for AM, CAD model preparation, data requirements &
geometric modelling techniques: Wire frame, surface and solid modelling data
formats.
Hands on practice for the fabrication of Single components and Assembly
components.
UNIT IV
Rapid Tooling:
Classification: Soft tooling, Production tooling, Bridge tooling; direct and
indirect, Fabrication processes, Applications, Rapid tooling techniques such
as laminated metallic tooling, direct metallaser sintering, vacuum casting.
Hands on practice for the fabrication of pattern and mould preparation.
UNIT V
Reverse Engineering Processes:
Introduction to reverse engineering, Integration of reverse engineering with
AM technology.
Hands on practice to generate model data in revere engineering process
integrated with AM process
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able:
CO1: To understand the concept of additive manufacturing, its benefits and
applications in various field.
CO2: To know the various liquid, powder and solid material based
technologies in Rapid Prototyping and Rapid Tooling process.
CO3: To know the application of AM process in the field of Biomedical.
CO4: To design solid models and converting it to 3D printing readable file
format required for part fabrication.
CO5: To focus on the various types errors in the RP parts and errors during
CAD file conversion.
CO6: To apply reverse engineering process to generate data for fabrication RP
part.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 242

Reference Books:
1. Rapid Prototyping: Principle and Applications, Rafiq I Noorani, Wiley &
Sons, 2006.
2. Rapid prototyping: Principles and applications, Chua C.K., Leong K.F.,
and Lim C.S., Yes Dee Publishing Pvt. Ltd, Third edition, 2010.
3. Rapid Prototyping and Engineering Applications, Frank W. Liou, CRC
Press, Special Indian Edition, 2007.
4. Additive manufacturing, R.B. Choudhary, Khanna Publication, 2022
Course Title Die development by CNC milling
Course Code (Credit) ME28013 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
The objective of the course is to provide basic knowledge on various tools and
precision instruments used during CNC milling operation. It helps in
understanding the usage of various machining cycles to reduce the
manufacturing lead time. Moreover, it explains the usage of various standards
and programming methods to be followed during CNC machining operation.
Finally, the students can develop/generate the programs used to produce the
geometries with complex contours using CNC milling machine.
Course content:
UNIT I
Tools and Safety: List of tools used on Milling Machine to perform various
operations.
Safety: Introduction to safety equipment and their uses.
UNIT II
Measuring instruments:
Vernier caliper, Micrometer, Bevel protractor, Coordinate measuring machine
(CMM): Construction, principle graduation and reading, least count.
UNIT III
Introduction to CNC:
Introduction to CNC technology, Conventional Vs. CNC machine tool, CNC
clamping system. Implementation of JH for CNC.
UNIT IV
CNC programming:
Introduction to CNC programming, Introduction and demonstration of line
programs milling machine using ISO codes into the CNC simulator. Part
programming methods, Cutting process parameter selection, Process planning
issues and path planning, G & M Codes, Interpolations, Tool compensations.
UNIT V
CNC Programming-Milling:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 243

Calculations of parameters like speed feed, depth of cut etc. and set a
references for the various operations. Prepare & set CNC Milling operations
and dry run on the machine. Execute program and inspect simple geometrical
forms / standard parts.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
Understand the usage of different tools and precautions to be followed during
machining.
CO1: Know the principle and operation of precision instruments.
CO2: Understand the technological advancements in NC and aimed to
achieve JH pillar.
CO3: Understanding the programming methods and programming in
simulators
CO4: Planning for optimized CNC programming by estimating suitable
process parameters
CO5: Programming of die contours and executing on CNC milling machine.
Reference Books:
1. Computer Control of Manufacturing Systems, Mc Graw Hill Publication,
By Yoram Koren.
2. CAD/CAM ByMikell P. Groover
3. A Textbooks: of Manufacturing Technology-II By P C Sharma
4. Engineering Metrology, Khanna Publishers, By R K Jain
Course Title Concept Car Manufacturing
Course Code (Credit) ME28015 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-2)
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Car Development:
Constraints And Specifications – Performance, Handling, Structure; Driver
Accommodation and Safety
Tyres: Adjustable Features, Preliminary Design And Analysis; Driver-Vehicle
Relationship. Desirable Vehicle Characteristics, Fundamentals of Track and
Lap
UNIT II
Racing Car Aerodynamics:
Aerodynamic Force and Moment, Race Car Drag; Spoilers, Dams, Wings -
Effectiveness Of Wings In SteadyState Cornering
UNIT III
Chassis Design:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 244

Conditions For Traversing a 90° Corner, Effects Of High Speed Braking,
Cornering, Combined Braking Cornering; Steady State Cornering, Throttle
Behaviour, Steering Wheel Force And Kick Back; Moving CG Position, Roll
Centre Position Changing
UNIT IV
Suspension System:
Front Suspension- General Design Issues, Camber Effects; SLA Suspension,
McPherson Struts; Independent Rear Suspension- Trailing Arm Types, Instant
Axis Concept; Suspension Springs- Torsion Springs, Coil Springs.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1. Remember the fundamentals of concept car characteristics.
CO2. Understand the aerodynamic requirements in racing vehicles.
CO3. Use the concepts of chassis behaviour of concept car
CO4. Illustrate the suspension characteristics of the concept car.
CO5. Understand the problems faced in drives and braking systems in
motorsports.
CO6. Build a concept car body
Textbooks:
1. Advanced Race Car Chassis Technology HP1562: Winning Chassis
Design and Setup for Circle Track and Road Race Cars Bob Bolles, HP
Books; Revised, Updated ed. edition 2010
Reference Books:
1. Race car vehicle dynamics, William F. Milliken and Douglas L. Milliken,
11th edition, SAE, 1995.
2. Formula 1Technology, Peter Wright, Sae Intl; 1st edition 2001.
Course Title Development of Autonomous Wheeled Robots
Course Code (Credit) ME28017 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-2)
Course Objective:
Nowadays, robotics is playing a vital role in industry 4.0, and autonomous
wheeled robots are being applied to minimize human efforts and to improve
the production rate. This course gives fundamental knowledge about wheeled
robotics and its different hardware and software components. Moreover, the
subject discusses kinematics equations, which will be implemented to control
the motion of wheeled robots through the actuators. Further, the present
course also describes the integration of various sensors and their
programming, which will be used to make an autonomous control system for
a robot.
Course Contents:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 245

UNIT I
About Locomotion for Wheeled Robot:
Key issues for locomotion, wheeled mobile robot’s locomotion, Legged wheeled
robots.
UNIT II
Wheeled Robots Kinematics:
Kinematic models and constraints, Representing robot position, Forward
kinematic models, Wheel kinematic constraints, Degree of freedom.
UNIT III
Sensors for Autonomous Wheeled Robots:
Various sensors for wheeled robots, Sensor classification, Ultrasonic sensor,
Infrared sensor, Vision sensor, Inertial measurement unit (IMU).
UNIT IV
Actuators for Autonomous Wheeled Robots:
Various actuators for wheeled robots, DC motor, Servo motor, Stepper motor,
Motor controller.
UNIT V
Wheeled Robots Programming:
Robot programming language features, Computer control and robot software
(monitor mode, run mode and editor mode), Arduino microcontroller
programming, Raspberry Pi programming, Complete design of an autonomous
wheeled robot.
Course Outcomes: Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the fundamentals of wheeled robotics and its different
components.
CO2: Apply locomotion constraint features to travel the wheeled robots in
different surface conditions.
CO3: Apply various sensors integration on wheeled robots for autonomous
navigation.
CO4: Analyze the kinematics of wheeled robots.
CO5: Create a robot programming to make an autonomous sensor-actuator
control system.
CO6: Design of automation solutions using wheeled robots.
Reference Books:
1. R. Siegwart, I.R. Nourbakhsh, D. Scaramuzza, Introduction to
Autonomous Mobile Robots, MIT Press, 2011.
2. S.G. Tzafestas, Introduction to Mobile Robot Control, Elsevier Science,
2013.
3. G. Dudek, M. Jenkin, Computational Principles of Mobile Robotics,
Cambridge University Press, 2010.
4. T. Bräunl, Embedded Robotics Mobile Robot Design and Applications
with Embedded Systems, Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2013.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 246

5. U. Nehmzow, Mobile Robotics A Practical Introduction, Springer
London, 2012.
Course Title Modeling of Micro-Wind turbine by 3D CAD
Design
Course Code (Credit) ME28019 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-2)
Course Objective:
Introduce computer-based solid, parametric, and assembly modeling as a tool
for engineering design; enhance critical thinking and design skills. This
course introduces the technology and economics of converting wind energy to
electricity and other kinds of energy. Both utility scale horizontal axis wind
turbines and small-scale horizontalare addressed, as well as the economical
and environmental issues associated with wind energy.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Wind Energy, Wind Power, State of the art technology:
Introduction to renewable sources, Wind energy, Types of wind turbines, State
of the art technology in wind energy.
UNIT II
Design and development of small wind turbines:
Small wind technology, blade element momentum theory, design of tail fin,
Wind turbine tower structure design stiffness and strength consideration,
Aerodynamics of wind turbine rotor blade design, angle of attack, profile.
UNIT III
3D modelling of wind turbine using CAD tools (SOLIDOWRKS):
Introduction to 3D modeling, Parametric modeling, feature-based modeling,
Design Intent; Solid modeling commands: Sketching, Extrusion, Revolve,
fillet, pattern.; Solid Modeling: reference geometry, Sweeps and Lofts;
UNIT IV
Assembling of the 3D model of the Wind turbine:
Assembly modeling; Top-down and bottom-up, Mates in assembly, exploded
view,
UNIT V
Creation of 2D drawings for production/manufacturing processes.
Extract 2D orthographic views from the 3D model for fabrication by specifying
the proper dimensions, according to industry standards, for parts to be
fabricated and to extract section and auxiliary views, Dimensioning standards
and conventions. 3D assembly drawing of the wind turbine, exploded view of
the tower, 3D drawings of all 3D printed parts.
UNIT VI
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 247

Simulation of wind turbine using SOLIDWORKS using CAD tools
(SOLIDOWRKS and ANSYS):
Engineering analysis with SolidWorks, Stress and deflection of the wind
turbine tower, Simulation of wind turbine using SolidWorks
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: To learn about the basic concepts of wind energy conversion system.
CO2: To understand the engineering design process and the implementation
of different design phases.
CO3: To create a 3D solid model with high degree of confidence.
CO4: To develop the ability to extract 2D orthographic views from the 3D
model for fabrication.
CO5: To learn the basics of assembly and associative constraints.
CO6: To understand the importance of standalone, grid-connected, and
hybrid operation in renewable energy systems.
Reference Books:
1. Wind Energy Explained: Theory, Design, and Application, By James F.
Manwell, Jon G. McGowan, and Anthony L. Rogers, Wiley (2010).
2. Wind Power Plants: Fundamentals, Design, Construction and
Operation, Gasch, Robert, Twele, Jochen (Eds.) Springer-Verlag Berlin
Heidelberg; 2nd edition (2012).
3. Open source SOLIDWORKS Tutorial :
https://my.solidworks.com/training/video/40d7a678-3293-4d7b-
ba18-2113ff114b2a
K-Xplore
(Practice Oriented Open Elective – I)
The B. Tech. curriculum provides for a 1-Credit practice-oriented Open
Elective K-Xplore in Semester V to make our undergraduate engineering
programme holistic, multidisciplinary, skill-based, and balanced. This course
allows the students to explore the opportunity that the KIIT University offers
to them to sharpen their skills in areas which excite them the most.
Offered in a self-learning mode, this subject allows the students to hone their
skills in areas they are passionate about which they select from a wide
spectrum of subjects in art, literature, technology, community engagement
and service, health, and environment and sustainability. In addition, the
students develop soft skills that are important for them in their professional
life. This course, thus, allows students to explore and grow in areas outside of
core academics and provides a channel for complementing the lessons learned
in the classroom, offering them the opportunity to apply academic skills in a
real-world context and providing a truly well-rounded education.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 248

This course is designed on the basis of the guiding philosophy of student-
centered learning where the students define problems, evaluate alternatives,
design solutions, and self-learn by performing certain assigned activities with
limited guidance from faculty facilitators.
Each student selects an area of his (or her) choice from a specified list of
areas. All the students with choice in a particular area are assigned to one or
more faculty facilitators. Faculty facilitators assign the activities and tasks
necessary for the course to the students and decide the desired mode of skills
training. They may decide to make small groups of students of varying group
sizes to carry out the assigned activities and tasks. They also make the
required facilities available to the students to enable them to carry out the
assigned activities and tasks.
The timetable will earmark specific hours for the subject. But the students
are expected to use their spare time (including holidays and after-lecture
hours on working days) to learn the required skills and use these skills to
accomplish the assigned activities and tasks. The students, however, have to
meet the faculty supervisors on the specified hours every week to appraise
them of their progress, clear their doubts, if any, and chart their future plan.
The Head of KIIT Student Activity Centre (KSAC) will coordinate offering of the
course.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1 :Develop the needed technical skills in their chosen fields of interest,
CO2 :Develop higher levels of self-confidence and soft skills such as
communication, writing, discussion and debate, time-management, and
leadership skills
CO3 : Apply the learned skills to give shape to their passionate ideas,
CO4 : Develop Innovation and entrepreneurial mindset,
CO5 : Analyze and judge a problem situation for deploying the learnt
knowledge and skills and develop problem solving strategies,and
CO6 : Build new products and services using the learned knowledge and
skills.
Course Title Robotic
Course Code SA38001 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective
To assist students develop the knowledge of robotics and circuitry, build
circuits, bots and robots, and participate in different Robotics events such as
Robo Wars.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 249

Course Title Web Designing
Course Code (Credit) SA38003 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To help a student learn and develop front-end and back-end web development
skills and create websites.
Course Title Civil-Tech
Course Code (Credit) SA38005 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To make a student ready to plan and design selected aspects of real life
construction projects with relation to environment, transport & connectivity,
water resource engineering & soil exploration and gain pre-, present-, and
post- construction experience.
Course Title Circuit Design & Control
Course Code (Credit) SA38007 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To let the students learn the required skills to design and develop electrical
circuits and implement controllers for use in robotics, automation, voice
recognition, gesture recognition, etc.
Course Title Indian Classical, Folk & Bollywood Dance
Course Code (Credit) SA38009 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To encourage and boost the confidence of the students to choreograph and
perform in classical, semi classical / folk and bollywood dance forms.
Course Title Indian Classical & Western Music
Course Code (Credit) SA38011 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective
To give confidence to the students to participate and perform as a vocalist
and/or instrumentalist in different forms of Indian classical and western
music.
Course Title Graphic Designing & Editing
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 250

Course Code (Credit) SA38013 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective
To nurture the students’ skills in creative designing, photo and video editing
activities, and digital sketching and painting, using Designing & Editing
software such as Photoshop, Illustrator and video editing software.
Course Title Art & Craft
Course Code (Credit) SA38015 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To endow the students with the skills to do various types of painting such as
portrait painting, landscape painting, abstract painting, pencil sketching, and
doodling and craft, using various Painting and Sketching tools.
Course Title Theatre & Street Pla
Course Code (Credit) SA38017 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To give students the confidence to perform in Theatres, Nukkad, Mono Acts
and skits based on written scripts.
Course Title Film Making
Course Code (Credit) SA38019 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To impart skills for film making in areas such as cinematography, script
writing, audio recording, and editing.
Course Title Debating, Public Speaking & Anchoring
Course Code (Credit) SA38021 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To develop the students’ skills for performing oratory activities such as
extempore speech, debate, poetry reading, open topic speech, public speaking,
interviewing, open dialogue, anchoring, and presentation.
Course Title Creative Writing
Course Code (Credit) SA38023 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 251

Course Objective:
To develop the students’ skills in creative writing, content writing, article
writing, and poem composition.
Course Title Photography & Videography
Course Code (Credit) SA38025 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To provide the technical knowledge required to create photos and videos that
tell a story or capture a real-world occurrence.
Course Title Fashion Styling
Course Code (Credit) SA38027 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To impart the basic skills of costume design, styling, grooming, and
presentation relevant to a specified theme.
Course Title Culinary Arts
Course Code (Credit) SA38029 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To help the students learn the skills of cooking, knowing ingredients, and
preparing cuisines of Pan India and 65 countries
Course Title Quiz Activity
Course Code (Credit) SA38031 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To give the students the confidence to participate in, and conduct, various
forms of quiz, such as Technical Quiz and Business Quiz.
Course Title Social Outreach
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 252

Course Code (Credit) SA38033 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To sensitize the students on the social issues and giving them an opportunity
to connect with the community and the environment through outreach
activities, community projects, and volunteering.
Course Title Health & Emergency Care
Course Code (Credit) SA38035 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objective:
To let the students learn about health issues, basic Life-saving skills and
participate in health awareness and sensitization programs.
Summary sheet for all courses in the B.Tech. Syllabus for all Programs of
School of Computer Engineering
Course Title CSE IT CSSE CSCE
Scientific and Technical EX20003 EX20003 EX20003 EX20003
Writing
Probability & Statistics MA 21001 MA 21001 MA 21001 MA 21001
Industry 4.0 Technologies EX20001 EX20001 EX20001 EX20001
Data Structures CS21001 CS21001 CS21001 CS21001
Digital Systems Design EC20005 EC20005 EC20005
Automata Theory and Formal
CS21003
Languages
Communication Engineering EC20008 EC20008
Principle of Signal Systems EC20006
Data Structures Laboratory CS29001 CS29001 CS29001 CS29001
Digital Systems Design
EC29005 EC29005 EC29005
Laboratory
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 253

Communication Engineering
EC 29002 EC 29002
Laboratory
MA21002 MA21002 MA21002 MA21002
Discrete Structures
Operating Systems CS20002 CS20002 CS20002 CS20002
Object Oriented
CS20004 CS20004 CS20004 CS20004
Programming using Java
Database Management CS20006 CS20006 CS20006
CS20006
Systems
Computer Organization and CS21002 CS21002 CS21002
Architecture
Information Theory and
CS20008
Coding
Information Security CS20010 CS20010
Operating Systems CS29002 CS29002 CS29002 CS29002
Laboratory
Java Programming CS29004 CS29004 CS29004 CS29004
Laboratory
Database Management CS29006 CS29006 CS29006 CS29006
Systems Laboratory
Design and Analysis of CS30001 CS30001 CS30001 CS30001
Algorithms
Software Engineering CS31001 CS31001 CS31001 CS31001
Computer Networks CS30003 CS30003 CS30003 CS30003
Algorithms Laboratory CS39001 CS39001 CS39001 CS39001
Engineering Professional EX40003 EX40003 EX40003 EX40003
practice
Computer Networks CS39003 CS39003 CS39003 CS39003
Laboratory
Machine Learning
CS31002 CS31002
Artificial Intelligence CS30002
Data Science and Analytics CS30004
Compilers CS30006
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 254

ARM and Advanced
EC30007
Microprocessors
Cloud Computing CS30008
Wireless Mobile
EC30002
Communication
Universal Human Values HS30401 HS30401 HS30401 HS30401
Artificial Intelligence
CS39002
Laboratory
Applications Development
CS33002
Laboratory
Data Analytics Laboratory CS39004
Advance Programming
CS39006 CS39006 CS39006
Laboratory
EC39006
ARM Laboratory
Wireless Communication &
EC39002
Networking Laboratory
Mini Project CS37001 CS37001 CS37001 CS37001
Project- I CS47001 CS47001 CS47001 CS47001
Internship CS48001 CS48001 CS48001 CS48001
Research Methods and Ethics EX40001 EX40001 EX40001 EX40001
Project- II CS47002 CS47002 CS47002 CS47002
PROFESIONAL ELECTIVE COURSES (PE)
Course Title CSE IT CSSE CSCE
High Performance
CS30005 CS30005
Computing
ARM and Advanced
EC30007
Microprocessors
Multi-Core
CS30007
Programming
Distributed
CS30009 CS30009
Operating Systems
Computational
CS30011 CS30011 CS30011 CS30011
Intelligence
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 255

Compiler CS30006
Data Mining and
CS30013 CS30013
Data Warehousing
Image Processing
CS30015 CS30015 CS30015 CS30015
and Applications
Cloud Computing CS30010 CS30010 CS30010
Computer Vision CS30026 CS30026 CS30026
IOT and
CS40004 CS40004
Applications
Time Series
CS30014 CS30014
Forecasting
Natural Language
CS30016
Processing
Deep Learning
CS40001 CS40001 CS40001 CS40001
Techniques
Software Testing
CS40003 CS40003 CS40003 CS40003
and Automation
Human Computer
CS40005 CS40005 CS40005 CS40005
Interaction
Computer Graphics
and Multimedia CS40007 CS40007 CS40007
Systems
Principles of
CS40009 CS40009
Cryptography
Nature Inspired
CS40002 CS40002 CS40002 CS40002
Computing
Software Project
CS30012 CS30012 CS30012
Management
Agile Software
CS40006 CS40006 CS40006 CS40006
Development
Social Network
CS40008 CS40008 CS40008 CS40008
Analysis
Augmented and
CS40010 CS40010 CS40010 CS40010
Virtual Reality
Artificial
CS30002 CS30002 CS30002
Intelligence
Big Data CS30017
Automata Theory
and Formal CS21003
Languages
Information
CS20010
Security
Web Technology
CS30019
and Applications
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 256

Real Time Systems CS30021
Software Defined
CS30023
Networking
Mobile Computing CS40011 CS40011
Block Chain CS40012 CS40012
Game Theory CS40014
Modeling and
CS30025
Simulation
Machine Learning CS31002
VLSI Circuits &
EC30005
Systems
Robotics and
CS30027
Application
Embedded System EC30024
Data Science and
CS30004 CS30004 CS30004
Analytics
Information Theory
CS20008
and Coding
Digital Signal
EC30023
Processing
Fiber Optics
Communication
EC30025
Systems &
Networks
Smart Antennas EC40018
Satellite
Communication EC30022
System
Multimedia
CS40013
Systems
K-Explore (Open
Yes Yes Yes Yes
Elective I)
Social Science
Yes Yes Yes Yes
Elective II
Social Science
Yes Yes Yes Yes
Elective III
Vocational Electives Yes Yes Yes Yes
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 257

Mapping of Course Outcomes with Programme Outcomes
Data Structures:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Automata Theory and Formal Languages:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Data Structures Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Operating Systems:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 258

CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Object Oriented Programming using Java:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Database Management Systems:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
Computer Organization and Architecture:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Operating Systems Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 259

CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Java Programming Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
Database Management Systems Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Design and Analysis of Algorithms:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Software Engineering:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 260

CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √
Computer Networks:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
High Performance Computing:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √
Multi-Core Programming:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Distributed Operating Systems:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 261

CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √
Computational Intelligence:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
Compiler:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Data Mining and Data Warehousing:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Image Processing and Applications:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 262

CO6 √ √ √
Algorithms Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Computer Networks Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Machine Learning:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Artificial Intelligence:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 263

CO3 √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Cloud Computing:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Computer Vision:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Software Project Management:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Time Series Forecasting:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 264

PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √
Natural Language Processing:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Universal Human Values:
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
Applications Development Laboratory:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
MINI PROJECT:
Deep Learning Techniques:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 265

PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √
Software Testing and Automation:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √
Human Computer Interaction:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Computer Graphics and Multimedia Systems:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √
CO6 √
Principles of Cryptography:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 266

CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √
Nature Inspired Computing:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √
IOT and Applications:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Agile Software Development:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Social Network Analysis:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √
CO2 √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 267

CO3 √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
Augmented and Virtual Reality:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √
Project – II/ Research Project-II:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1
CO2
CO3
CO4
CO5
CO6
Software Engineering Fundamentals:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √ √
Essentials of Computer Science:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √ √ √
CO2 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 268

Object Oriented Programming:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √
CO6 √ √
Fundamentals of Data Structures:
PO 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 PSO1 PSO2 PSO3
CO1 √ √
CO2 √ √ √
CO3 √ √ √ √
CO4 √ √ √ √ √
CO5 √ √ √ √
CO6 √ √ √ √ √
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 269

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Course Title Communication Engineering
Course Code (Credit) EC20008 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites EC20001
Course Objective:
The Objective of the course is to learn the concepts of various analog and
digital communication systems. Also students will be able to analyze and
develop the problem solving abilities related to communication Engineering.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
To communication system, Signals in time and frequency domain, Fourier
transform and Series, properties of FT and FS, Various Signal functions,
Brief Idea of Probability, Cumulative Distributive Function, Probability
Distributive Function, Gaussian and Rayleigh PDF. Concept of Signal to
Noise Ratio
(This module introduces readers to basic mathematics and probability
required for communication system analysis. Derivation/Proof are not
required, students may be encouraged to self-study regarding the derivation
and proofs for better understanding)
UNIT II
Amplitude Modulation Techniques:
Need of Modulation, Frequency Translation, Principle of AM, side bands,
Power Relationship, Assignable Frequency spectrum, Side band
Transmission, DSB, SSB, VSB, AM modulators and Demodulators, AM
Radio Receiver, Super hetero-dyne Principle.
UNIT III
Frequency Modulation Techniques:
Principle of FM, Frequency Deviation, Spectrum of FM wave, Power in
Modulated wave, Narrow band FM, Pre-emphasis and De-emphasis, Block
Diagram of FM Transmitter, FM Detector, Block Diagram of FM Receiver,
UNIT IV
Pulse Modulation Techniques:
Analog vs Digital modulation, Sampling Process, Pulse Amplitude
Modulation, Pulse Width Modulation,Pulse Position Modulation,Time
Division Multiplexing, Frequency Division Multiplexing, The Quantization
Process, Pulse Code Modulation, Bandwidth vs SNR trade-off in PCM.
UNIT V
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 270

Digital Modulation:
Data Form, Principles involved in ASK, PSK (BPSK, QPSK, π/4 QPSK), FSK.
UNIT VI
Different Communication Systems:
Introduction to Modems, Brief concept of satellite communication, Fiber
optic communication and Mobile communication.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Comprehend the basics of signals and systems like Fourier series,
Fourier transform and their properties, random variable, random
process, power spectral density of a signal etc.
CO2: Identify the need of communication and analyze different Amplitude
Modulation based communication systems and their functions.
CO3: Comprehend, analyze and design Angle Modulation based
communication systems and their functions.
CO4: Comprehend, analyze and Compare different Pulse Modulation
based communication systems and their functions.
CO5; Comprehend and analyze various Digital communication techniques
and Systems.
CO6: Gain broad Knowledge about Wireless, Satellite and Optical
Communication.
Textbooks:
1. Modern Digital and Analog Communications Systems -B.P. Lathi -
Hardcover, Oxford Univ Press, 4th Edition.
2. Introduction to Analog & Digital Communication System – Simon
Haykins, Wiley Student edition 2011 – John Wiley.
Reference Book:
1. Principles of Communication System – H. Taub & D.L.Schilling – TMH,
3rd Edition
Course Title Information Theory and Coding
Course Code (Credit) CS20008 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objectives
 To define and apply the basic concepts of information theory
(entropy, channel capacity etc.)
 To learn the principles and applications of information theory in
communication systems
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 271

 To study various data compression methods and describe the most
common such methods
 To understand the theoretical framework upon which error-control
codes
Course Content:
UNIT-I:
Information theory: Concept of amount of information, Information units
Entropy: marginal, Conditional, joint and relative entropies, Relation among
entropies Mutual information, Information rate, Channel capacity,
Redundancy and efficiency of channels Discrete channels, Symmetric
channels, Binary Symmetric Channel, Binary Erasure Channel, Noise-Free
Channel, Channel with independent I/O, Cascaded channels, Repetition of
symbols, Binary asymmetric channel, Shannon theorem
UNIT-II:
Source coding, Encoding techniques, Purpose of encoding, Instantaneous
codes, Construction of instantaneous codes, Kraft’s inequality, Coding
efficiency and redundancy, Source coding theorem. Construction of basic
source codes, Shannon Fano coding, Shannon Fano Elias coding, Huffman
coding, Minimum variance Huffman coding, Adaptive Huffman coding,
Arithmetic coding, Dictionary coding, Lempel Ziv coding, Channel coding
theorem for DMC
UNIT-III:
Codes for error detection and correction, Parity check coding, Linear block
codes, Error detecting and correcting capabilities, Generator and Parity
check matrices, Standard array and Syndrome decoding, Probability of an
undetected error for Linear Codes over a BSC, Hamming codes, Applications
of Block codes for Error control in data storage system
UNIT-IV:
Cyclic codes, Generator polynomial, Generator and Parity check matrices,
Encoding of cyclic codes, Syndrome computation and error detection,
Decoding of cyclic codes, BCH codes, RS codes, Burst error correction,
Error-trapping decoding for cyclic codes, Majority logic decoding for cyclic
codes.
UNIT-V:
Convolutional codes, Encoding and State, Tree and Trellis diagrams,
Maximum likelihood decoding of convolutional codes, Viterbi algorithm,
Sequential decoding, Stack algorithm. Interleaving techniques, Block and
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 272

convolutional interleaving, Coding and interleaving applied to CD digital
audio system, CIRC encoding and decoding, Interpolation and muting.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Solve problems on measurement of information and errors.
CO2: Explain the significance of quantitative measure of information in the
communications systems
CO3: Design various source codes and channel codes
CO4: Differentiate between lossy and lossless compression techniques
CO5: Model encoders and decoders for block and cyclic codes
CO6: Discuss the significance of codes in various applications
Textbooks:
1. T. M. Cover, J. A. Thomas, “Elements of Information Theory”, 2nd
Edition, Wiley.
2. Ranjan. Bose, Information Theory Coding and Cryptography, Third
Edition, McGraw Hill.
Course Title Data Science and Analytics
Course Code (Credit) CS30004 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concepts of Data science
 To explore the big data technologies and tools
 To become familiar with statistical concepts
 To apply the different data analytics techniques
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Data Science:
Introduction to Data, Data Science, Challenges of Traditional Systems,
Evolution of Analytic Scalability, Types of Computing (Distributed, Parallel,
Grid), Data Analytics Lifecycle, Introduction to Big Data (Characteristics)
and Hadoop (Hadoop Ecosystem, MapReduce, Hbase, Pig, Hive, Sqoop,
NOSQL), Visualizations
UNIT II
Statistical Concepts:
Data Exploration: Distribution of a single variable, Basic Concepts
(populations and samples, Data sets, Variables, and observations, Types of
data), Descriptive measures for categorical variables, Descriptive measures
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 273

for numerical variables, Outliers and Missing values. Finding relationships
among variables: Categorical variables, Numerical variables, Categorical
variables and a Numerical variable. Sampling and distributions:
Terminology, Estimation, Confidence Interval estimation, Sampling
distributions, Confidence interval, Hypothesis testing, Chi-square test for
independence
UNIT III
Data Analytics:
Introduction, Types of Data Analytics, Importance of Data Analytics, Data
Analytics Applications, Regression Modelling Techniques: Linear Regression,
Multiple Linear Regression, Non Linear Regression, Logistic Regression,
Time Series Analysis, Performance analysis (RMSE, MAPE).
UNIT IV
Frequent Itemsets and Association:
Introduction to Frequent Itemsets, Market-Basket Model, Algorithm for
Finding Frequent, Itemsets, Association Rule Mining, Apriori Algorithm and
Correlations.
UNIT V
Classification & Clustering:
Introduction to classification and clustering, Distance-Based Algorithms: K
Nearest Neighbour (KNN), Decision Tree-Based Algorithms: Decision Tree
(ID3 Algorithm), Support Vector Machines (Linear), Naves Bayes. Overview of
Clustering Techniques, Hierarchical Clustering, Partitioning Methods, K-
Means Algorithm.
UNIT VI
Data Streams:
Introduction to Mining Data Streams, Data Stream Management Systems,
Data Stream Mining, Examples of Data Stream Applications, Stream
Queries, Issues in Data Stream Query, Processing, Sampling in Data
Streams, Filtering Streams, Counting Distinct Elements in a Stream,
Estimating Moments.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Make use of data science concepts to handle big data.
CO2: Examine the statistical concepts for finding relationships among
variables and estimate data samplings.
CO3: Select the data analytics techniques & models for both data
prediction and performance analysis.
CO4: Develop rules using frequent item sets and association mining.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 274

CO5: Solve real-time problems using classification and clustering
techniques.
CO6: Apply the mining techniques for data streams.
Textbooks:
1. Radha Shankarmani, M. Vijayalaxmi, “Big Data Analytics”, Second
Edition, Wiley
Reference Books:
1. Business Analytics: Data Analysis & Decision Making by S. Christian
Albright and Wayne L. Winston. 7th Edition. Published by Cengage
Learning. (ISBN: 9781305947542)
2. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques by Jiawei Han, Micheline
Kamber, and Jian Pei. 3rd Edition. Published by Morgan Kaufmann.
(ISBN: 9780123814791)
3. Data Science and Big Data Analytics: Discovering, Analyzing,
Visualizing and Presenting Data by EMC Education Services (Editor),
Wiley, 2014
4. Big Data, Black Book, DT Editorial Services, Dreamtech Press, 2015
Course Title Automata Theory and Formal Languages
Course Code (Credit) CS21003 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives
 To know about Chomsky hierarchy for organizing languages
 To introduce concepts in automata theory and theory of computation
 To identify different formal language classes and their relationships
 To design grammars and recognizers for different formal languages
 To understand undecidability and decide on languages that are
undecidable
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Finite Automata:
Alphabets, Strings and Languages, Automata and Grammars,
Deterministic Finite Automata (DFA), Formal Definition, Simplified
notation: State transition graph, Transition table. Language of DFA, Non-
deterministic Finite Automata (NFA), NFA with epsilon transition,
Language of NFA, Equivalence of NFA and DFA, Minimization of Finite
Automata, Distinguishing one string from other, Myhill Nerode Theorem.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 275

UNIT II
Regular Expression (RE):
Definition, Operators of regular expression and their precedence, Algebraic
laws for Regular expressions, Kleen’s Theorem, Regular expression to FA,
DFA to Regular expression, Arden Theorem, Non Regular Languages,
Pumping Lemma for regular Languages. Application of Pumping Lemma,
Closure properties of Regular Languages, Decision properties of Regular
Languages, FA with output: Moore and Mealy machine, Equivalence of
Moore and Mealy Machine, Applications and Limitation of FA.
UNIT III
Context Free Grammar (CFG) and Context Free Languages:
Definition, Examples, Derivation, Derivation trees, Ambiguity in Grammar,
Inherent ambiguity, Ambiguous to Unambiguous CFG, Useless symbols,
Simplification of CFGs, Normal forms for CFGs: CNF and GNF, Closure
properties of CFLs, Decision Properties of CFLs: Emptiness, Finiteness
and Membership, Pumping lemma for CFLs.
UNIT IV
Push Down Automata (PDA):
Description and definition, Instantaneous Description, Language of PDA,
Acceptance by Final state, Acceptance by empty stack, Deterministic PDA,
Equivalence of acceptance by empty stack and final state, Conversion of
CFG to PDA and PDA to CFG.UNIT V
UNIT V
Turing Machines (TM) and Undecidability:
Basic model, definition and representation, Instantaneous Description,
Language acceptance by TM, Variants of Turing Machine, TM as Computer
of Integer functions, Universal TM, Church’s Thesis, Recursive and
recursively enumerable languages, Halting problem, Introduction to
Undecidability, Undecidable problems about TMs, Post correspondence
problem (PCP), Modified PCP and undecidable nature of post
correspondence problem, Introduction to recursive function theory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Acquire a fundamental understanding of the core concepts in
automata theory and formal languages
CO2: Design finite automata or regular expression for any tokenization task
CO3: Construct a context free grammar for parsing any language
CO4: Design Turing machine for any language
CO5: Conclude the decidable / undecidable nature of any language
CO6: Apply mathematical and formal techniques for solving real-world
problems
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 276

Textbooks:
1. John Hopcroft, Rajeev Motwani, and Jeffrey Ullman, “Introduction to
Automata Theory, Languages and Computation”, Third Edition,
Pearson Education, 2014.
Reference Books:
5. John Hopcroft, Jeffrey Ullman, “Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages and Computation”, Nineteenth Reprint, Narosa
Publishing House, 2002.
6. Martin J. C., “Introduction to Languages and Theory of
Computations”, Fourth Edition, TMH, 2010.
7. Peter Linz, “An Introduction to Formal Language and Automata”,
Jones and Bertlett, 2011.
8. Papadimitriou C., Lewis C. L., “Elements of the Theory of
Computation”, Pearson, 1997.
Course Title Web Technology and Applications
Course Code (Credit) CS30019 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3
Course Objectives:
 To understand the basics of Web Designing using HTML, DHTML, and
CSS
 To learn the basics about Client side scripts and Server side scripts
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
HTML, Introduction, HTML Formatting, Hyper-Links, Lists, Tables,
Images, Forms, Frames, Cascading Style sheets, Types, XML, Document
type definition, XML Schemas, Document Object model.*
UNIT II:
Introduction to Client Side scripting, JavaScript, Control statements,
Functions, Arrays, Objects, Events, Dynamic HTML with Java Script,
AJAX: Ajax Client Server Architecture, XML Http Request Object, Call Back
Methods.
UNIT III:
NodeJS and Express, Introduction to AngularJS and Fundamentals of
ReactJS, Web servers, IIS (XAMPP, LAMPP) and Tomcat Servers, Server
Side Scripting, Java Servlets, Java Server Pages, Java Server Faces, JSF
Components, Session Tracking, Cookies.
UNIT IV:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 277

PHP, Basic Syntax, Defining variable and constant, PHP Data types,
Operator and Expression, Operator Precedence, Decisions and Loop,
Functions & Recursion, String Processing and Regular Expressions, Form
Processing, Working with file and Directories, Cookies
UNIT V:
Database Connectivity with MySQL, Servlets, JSP, PHP, MongoDB,
NOSQL Database*, Fundamentals of JQuery and Bootstrap
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Describe and interpret standard web technologies
CO2: Apply the basics of Web Designing using HTML, DHTML, and CSS
CO3: Build real world applications using client side and server side
scripting languages
CO4: Design and develop applications using web technologies
CO5: Create the database connectivities
CO6: Suggest appropriate web technologies for any application
Textbooks:
1. Paul J. Deitel, Harvey M. Deitel, Abbey Deitel, “Internet & World
Wide Web How to Program”, Fifth Edition, Deitel Series, 2012.
2. Jason Gilmore, “Beginning PHP and MySQL from Novice to
Professional”, Fourth Edition, Apress Publications, 2010.
3. Brown, Ethan, “Web Development with Node and Express:
Leveraging the JavaScript Stack”,Second Edition O'Reilly Media,.
4. Anthony, Accomazzo, Murray Nathaniel, Lerner Ari, “Fullstack React:
The Complete Guide to React JS and Friends”, Fullstack.io, 2017.
Reference Books:
1. Robert W. Sebesta, “Programming with World Wide Web”, Eighth
Edition, Pearson, 2008.
2. David William Barron, “The World of Scripting Languages”, John Wiley
& Sons Publications, 2000.
3. Dayley B., “Node.js, MongoDB, and AngularJS Web Development”,
Addison-Wesley Professional, 2014.
Course Title Big Data
Course Code (Credit) CS30017 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20006
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concepts of big data
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 278

 To know the big data technology foundations
 To know the hardtop ecosystem
 To become aware of storing data in databases and data warehouses
 To know the insights of data through data analytics
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Getting an Overview of Big Data:
What is Big Data, History of Data Management – Evolution of Big Data,
Structuring Big Data, Elements of Big Data, Big Data Analytics, Future of
Big Data, Use of Big Data in Social Networking, Use of Big Data in
Preventing Fraudulent Activities, Use of Big Data in Detecting Fraudulent
Activities in Insurance Sector, Use of Big Data in Retail Industry.
UNIT II
Understanding Big Data Technology Foundations:
Exploring the Big Data Stack, Data Sources Layer, Ingestion Layer, Storage
Layer, Physical Infrastructure Layer, Platform Management Layer, Security
Layer, Monitoring Layer, Analytics Engine, Visualization Layer,
Virtualization and Big Data, Virtualization Approaches, Distributed and
Parallel Computing for Big Data, Introducing Hadoop, Cloud Computing and
Big Data, In-Memory Computing Technology for Big Data.
UNIT III
Understanding Hadoop Ecosystem:
Hadoop Ecosystem, Hadoop Distributed File System, MapReduce, Hadoop
YARN, Introducing HBase, Combining HBase and HDFS, Hive, Pig and Pig
Latin, Sqoop, ZooKeeper, Flume, Oozie, The MapReduce Framework,
Techniques to Optimize MapReduce Jobs, Uses of MapReduce, Role of
HBase in Big Data Processing.
UNIT IV
Storing Data in Databases and Data Warehouses:
RDBMS and Big Data, Non-Relational Database, Polyglot Persistence,
Integrating Big Data with Traditional Data Warehouses, Big Data Analysis
and Data Warehouse, Changing Deployment Models in Big Data Era.
Introduction to NoSQL, Types of NoSQL Data Models, Schema-Less
Databases, Materialized Views, Distribution Models, Sharding.
UNIT V
Understanding Analytics and Big Data:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 279

Comparing Reporting and Analysis, Types of Analytics, Points to Consider
during Analysis, Developing an Analytic Team, Understanding Text
Analytics, Introducing Social Media Introducing Key Elements of Social
Media, Introducing Text Mining, Understanding Text Mining Process,
Sentiment Analysis, Performing Social Media Analytics and Opinion Mining
on Tweets.
Course outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1. Formulate the concept of data management and evolution of Big
Data.
CO2. Implement and understand various big data technology foundations.
CO3. Apply the fundamentals of Hadoop ecosystem and its components for
data analysis.
CO4. Analyze the optimization and storage of data in data bases.
CO5. Explore the understanding of analytics and big data.
CO6. Implement deep learning approches in real life application.
Textbooks:
1. Big Data, Black Book, DT Editorial Services, Dreamtech Press, 2015
2. Seema Acharya, Subhashini Chellappan ,”Big Data and Analytics’’,
Wiley India, Second Edition, 2015
Reference Books:
1. Bill Franks, Taming the Big Data Tidal Wave: Finding Opportunities in
Huge Data Streams with advanced analystics, John Wiley & sons,
2012.(Foreign books)
2. Glenn J. Myatt, Making Sense of Data, Wiley-Inter Science, 2007
3. Judith Hurwitz, Alan Nugent, Fern Halper, Marcia Kaufman ‘’Big Data
For Dummies’’, Wiley 2013
Course Title Real Time Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS30021 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To study issues related to the design and analysis of systems with
real-time constraints
 To learn the features of Real time OS
 To study the various Uniprocessor and Multiprocessor scheduling
mechanisms
 To learn about various real time communication protocols
 To study the difference between traditional and real time
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 280

databases
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Real-time systems:
Introduction to real time computing, Concepts, Example of real-time
applications, Structure of a real time system, Characterization of real time
systems and tasks, Hard and Soft timing constraints, Design Challenges,
Performance metrics, Prediction of Execution Time: Source code analysis,
Micro–architecture level analysis, Cache and pipeline issues, Programming
Languages for Real-Time Systems.*
UNIT II
Task Assignment and Scheduling:
Real time OS, Threads and Tasks, Structure of Microkernel, Time
services, Scheduling Mechanisms, Communication and Synchronization,
Event Notification and Software interrupt, Uniprocessor scheduling
algorithms, Task assignment, Mode changes, Fault tolerant scheduling.*
UNIT III
Real–Time Communication:
Network topologies and architecture issues, Protocols, Contention-based,
token–based, Polled bus, Fault tolerant routing.*
UNIT IV
Real–Time Databases:
Transaction priorities and aborts, Concurrency control issues,
Scheduling algorithms, Two-phase approach to improve predictability.*
UNIT V
Programming Languages and Tools:
Hierarchical decomposition, Run–time error handling, Overloading,
Timing specification, Recent trends and developments.*
*Programming Assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Classify the features of Real time OS
CO2: Identify issues related to the design and analysis of systems with
real-time constraints
CO3: Analyze scheduling problems
CO4: Appreciate and apply Real–time programming environment tasks for
solving practical problems
CO5: Develop real time systems.
CO6: Compare basic multi-task scheduling algorithms
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 281

Textbooks:
1. Jane Liu, “Real–Time Systems”, First Edition, Pearson, 2002
Reference Books:
1. Rajib Mall, “Real–Time Systems: Theory and Practice”, First Edition,
Pearson Education, 2012.
Course Title Software Defined Networking
Course Code (Credit) CS30023 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS30003
Course Objectives:
 Analyze reduced Complexity of Network Operation
 Describe and understand the concepts of minimize Layer and maximize
Network Resources
 Evaluate and understand the Faster Time to Revenue for New
Applications
 Memorize Data center and its usage
 Illustrate about Big data
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Introduction, Control Plane, Data Plane, Distributed Control Planes, IP
and MPLS, Creating the IP Underlay, Convergence Time, Load Balancing
High Availability, Creating the MPLS Overlay, Replication, Centralized
Control Planes, Logical Versus Litera, ATM/LANE, Route Servers, Wire
Protocol, FAWG, Config and Extensibility, Architecture, Hybrid
Approaches, Ships in the Night, Dual Function Switches.*
UNIT II
Interface:
VMWare, Nicira, Mininet, NOX/POX, Trema, Ryu, Big Switch
Networks/Floodlight, Layer 3 Centric, L3VPN, Path Computation Element
Server, Plexxi Affinity, Cisco OnePK, Management Interface, Network
Divide, Modern Programmatic Interfaces, Modern Orchestration.*
UNIT III
Data Center:
Multitenant Data Center, Virtualized Multitenant Data Center, SDN
Solutions for Data Center Network, VLANs, EVPN, VxLan, NVGRE,
Virtualization and Data Plane I/O, Services Engineered Path, Service
Locations and Chaining, NEV at ETSI, Non-ETSI NEV Work.*
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 282

UNIT IV
Topology:
Network Topology, Traditional Methods, LLDP, BGP-TE/LS, ALTO, I2RS,
Build Code First, The Juniper SDN Framework(s), Open Daylight
Controller/Framework, Policy.*
UNIT V
Technology:
Bandwidth Scheduling, Manipulation, Calendaring, Bandwidth
Calendaring, Big Data and Application Hyper, Virtualization for Instant
CSPF, Expanding Technology, Use Cases for Data Center Overlays, Big
Data, Network Function Virtualization, Data Center Orchestration, Puppet,
Network Function Virtualization, Optimized Big Data, Firewall as Service,
Network Access Control Replacement, Virtual Firewall, Feed Back and
Optimization, Intrusion Detection/Threat Mitigation.*
*Programming Assignments are mandatory
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Comprehend Software Defined Networks
CO2: Analyze reduced Complexity of Network Operation
CO3: Compare and analyze the advantages of SDN over traditional network
CO4: Design and implement software defined network
CO5: Design algorithm for virtualization
CO6: Design algorithm for big data analytics
Textbooks:
1. Thomas D. Nandeau, Ken Gray, “Software Defined Networks”, First
Edition, O’ Reilly Media Inc., 2013.
2. FEI HU, “Network Innovation through OpenFlow and SDN: Principles
and Design”, CRC Press, 2014.
Reference Books:
1. Azodolmolky, Siamak, “Software Defined Networking with OpenFlow”,
Packt Publishing Ltd., 2013.
2. Nadeau, Thomas D., Ken Gray, “SDN: Software Defined Networks: An
Authoritative Review of Network Programmability Technologies”,
O'Reilly Media Inc., 2013.
3. Dillinger, Markus, Kambiz Madani, Nancy Alonistioti, “Software
Defined Radio: Architectures, Systems and Functions”, John Wiley &
Sons, 2005.
4. Goransson, Paul, Chuck Black, Timothy Culver, “Software Defined
Networks: A Comprehensive Approach”, Morgan Kaufmann, 2016.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 283

Course Title Information Security
Course Code (Credit) CS20010 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS30003
Course Objectives
 To understand the basics of Information Security
 To know the legal, ethical and professional issues in Information
Security
 To know the aspects of risk management
 To become aware of various standards in this area
 To know the technological aspects of Information Security
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Information Security, Critical Characteristics of Information, NSTISSC
Security Model, Components of an Information System, Securing the
Components, Balancing Security and Access, The SDLC, The Security
SDLC.
UNIT II
Security Investigation:
Need for Security, Business Needs, Threats, Attacks, Legal, Ethical and
Professional Issues, An Overview of Computer Security, Access Control
Matrix, Policy, Security policies, Confidentiality policies, Integrity policies
and Hybrid policies.
UNIT III
Security Analysis:
Risk Management, Identifying and Assessing Risk, Assessing and
Controlling Risk, Systems: Access Control Mechanisms, Information Flow
and Confinement Problem.
UNIT IV
Logical Design:
Blueprint for Security, Information Security Policy, Standards and
Practices, ISO 17799/BS 7799, NIST Models, VISA, International Security
Model, Design of Security Architecture, Planning for Continuity.
UNIT V
Physical Design:
Security Technology, IDS, Scanning and Analysis Tools, Cryptography,
Access Control Devices, Physical Security, Security and Personnel
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 284

Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify goals of Information Security
CO2: Discuss the basics of information security
CO3: Illustrate the legal, ethical and professional issues in information
security
CO4: Demonstrate the aspects of risk management
CO5: Become aware of various standards in the Information Security
System
CO6: Design and implementation of Security Techniques
Textbooks:
1. Michael E. Whitman, Herbert J Mattord, “Principles of Information
Security”, Cengage, Sixth Edition, 2018.
Reference Books:
1. Micki Krause, Harold F. Tipton, “Handbook of Information Security
Management”, Vol. 1-3, CRC Press LLC, 2004.
2. Stuart McClure, Joel Scrambray, George Kurtz, “Hacking Exposed”,
Tata McGraw Hill, 2003.
3. Matt Bishop, “Computer Security Art and Science”, Addison-Wesley
Professional, 2002
Course Title Mobile Computing
Course Code (Credit) CS40011 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To understand the fundamentals of mobile communication
 To understand the architecture of various Wireless
Communication Networks
 To understand the significance of different layers in mobile system
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
Introduction to Wireless Networks, Applications, History, Simplified
Reference Model, Wireless transmission, Frequencies, Signals, Antennas,
Signal propagation, Multiplexing, Modulation, Spread spectrum, Cellular
Systems: Frequency Management and Channel Assignment, Types of hand-
off and their characteristics.*
UNIT II:
MAC, Motivation, SDMA, FDMA, TDMA, CDMA, Telecommunication
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 285

Systems, GSM: Architecture- Location tracking and call setup, Mobility
management, Handover, Security, GSM, SMS, International roaming for
GSM, Call recording functions, Subscriber and service data management,
DECT, TETRA, UMTS, IMT-2000.*
UNIT III:
Wireless LAN, Infrared vs. Radio transmission, Infrastructure, Adhoc
Network, IEEE 802.11WLAN Standards, Architecture, Services, HIPERLAN,
Bluetooth Architecture & protocols.*
UNIT IV:
Mobile Network Layer, Mobile IP, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol,
Mobile Transport Layer, Traditional TCP, Indirect TCP, Snooping TCP,
Mobile TCP, Fast retransmit/Fast recovery, Transmission/Time-out
freezing, Selective retransmission, Transaction Oriented TCP.*
UNIT V:
WAP Model, Mobile Location based services, WAP Gateway, WAP protocols,
WAP user agent profile caching model, Wireless bearers for WAP, WML,
WML Scripts – WTA – iMode, SyncML.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Perceive the fundamentals of mobile communication
CO2: Describe the architecture of various Wireless Communication Network
CO3: Recognize different layers in mobile system
CO4: Develop a strong grounding in the fundamentals of mobile Networks
CO5: Apply knowledge in MAC, Network, and Transport Layer protocols of
Wireless Network
CO6: Comprehend and develop a lightweight network stack
Textbooks:
1. Jochen Schiller, “Mobile Communication”, Second Edition, Pearson
Education, 2008.
2. Theodore, S. Rappaport, “Wireless Communications, Principles,
Practice”, Second Edition, Pearson, 2023.
Reference Books:
1. C. Siva Ram Murthy, B. S. Manoj, “Adhoc Wireless Networks:
Architectures and Protocols”, Second Edition, Pearson Education,
2008.
2. Vijay. K. Garg, “Wireless Communication and Networking”, Morgan
Kaufmann Publishers, 2007.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 286

Course Title Block Chain
Course Code (Credit) CS40012 (L- T- P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives
 To understand the design principles Block Chain
 To describe differences between proof-of-work and proof-of-stake
consensus
 To understand building a distributed application
 To understand Bitcoin's consensus mechanism
Course Contents:
Unit I
Blockchain Fundamentals:
Fundamental of Blockchain Technology and its Importance, Electronic
Systems and Trust, Distributed Versus Centralized Versus Decentralized,
Bitcoin Predecessors, DigiCash, E-Gold, Cryptographic hash functions,
Properties of a hash function-Hash pointer and Merkle tree, digital
signatures, B-Money, Evolution of the Blockchain Technology, Storing Data
in a Chain of Blocks, Compelling Components, Achieving Consensus
Unit II
Cryptocurrency Fundamentals:
Basic cryptocurrency system, Public and Private Keys in Cryptocurrency
Systems, The UTXO Model, Transactions, Signing and Validating
Transactions, Bitcoin Transaction Security, Wallet Types: Custodial Versus
Noncustodial, Lightweight wallets, Hierarchical deterministic wallets,
Permissioned and Permissionless Consensus, Proof-of-Work, Proof-of-Stake,
Proof of Burn, Proof of Elapsed Time, Bitcoin Miner, Mining Difficulty
Unit III
Distributed Consensus:
Permissioned Blockchain: Design issues for Permissioned blockchains,
Execute contracts, State machine replication, Overview of Consensus
models for permissioned blockchain- Distributed consensus in closed
environment, Paxos, RAFT Consensus Algorithm, Practical Byzantine Fault
Tolerance (PBFT), Lamport-Shostak-Pease BFT Algorithm.
Unit IV
Forks and Altchains:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 287

Understanding Forks, Contentious Hard Forks, The Bitcoin Cash Fork,
Altcoins, Litecoin, Privacy-Focused Cryptocurrencies, Segregated witness,
Validation and Analysis of Smart Contracts, Evolution of Ethereum, The
Ethereum Classic Fork, Comparison among Bitcoin, Ethereum, Stellar,
Monero, ZCash, Quorum and Hyperledger fabric. Enterprise, Healthcare and
transportation application of Blockchain
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Explain the design principles of Bitcoin and Ethereum.
CO2: List and describe differences between proof-of-work and proof-of-stake
consensus.
CO3: Interact with a blockchain system by sending and reading
transactions
CO4: Design, build and deploy a distributed application.
CO5: Apply the concept of Bitcoin's consensus mechanism and the
interaction between Bitcoin and Altcoins
CO6: Familiarize with Ethereum, smart contracts and related technologies,
and solidity language
Textbooks:
1. Arvind Narayanan, Joseph Bonneau, Edward Felten, Andrew Miller,
and Steven Goldfeder. Bitcoin and cryptocurrency technologies: a
comprehensive introduction. Princeton University Press, 2016.
2. Lorne Lantz & Daniel Cawrey, Mastering Blockchain Unlocking the
Power of Cryptocurrencies, Smart Contracts, and Decentralized
Applications, O’REILLY Publications
Reference Books:
1. Bina Ramamurthy, Blockchain in Action, MANNING Publication.
2. Bikramaditya Singhal, Gautam Dhameja, and PriyansuSekhra Panda,
Beginning Blockchain, Apress Publication.
3. Draft version of “S. Shukla, M. Dhawan, S. Sharma, S. Venkatesan,
“Blockchain Technology: Cryptocurrency and Applications”, World
cientific, 2020.
4. Josh Thompson, “Blockchain: The Blockchain for Beginnings, Guild to
Blockchain Technology and Blockchain Programming’, Create Space
Independent Publishing Platform, 2017.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 288

Course Title Game Theory
Course Code (Credit) CS40014 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To explain and predict how individuals behave in a specific strategic
situation, and therefore help improve decision making
 To explain in depth the standard equilibrium concepts in Game Theory
 To illustrate the concepts, real-world examples and case studies
 To design Repeated Games with public information
 To design static and Dynamic games with incomplete information
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Game Theory:
Games and solutions, Game theory and mechanism design, Examples
from networks, Strategic form games, Matrix and continuous games,
Iterated strict dominance, Rationalizability, Nash Equilibrium, existence
and uniqueness, Mixed and correlated equilibrium, Super modular games,
Potential/congestion games, Existence and Properties of Nash Equilibria.
UNIT II
Extensive-Form Games:
Definition, Strategies and Equilibria in Extensive Form Games, Backward
Induction and Subgame Perfection and its Critiques
UNIT III
Repeated Games:
Infinitely/finitely repeated games, Pareto Perfection and Renegotiation,
Proofness in Repeated Games, Repeated Games with incomplete Public
Information, Trigger strategies, Fork Theorem with Imperfect Public
Information
UNIT IV
Static Games with incomplete information:
Mixed and Behavioral strategies, Bayesian Nash equilibrium, Applications in
auctions, Different auction formats, Revenue and efficiency properties of
different auctions, Bayesian Games and Mechanism Design Principle,
Single Agent, Several Agents, Further topics in Mechanism Design.
Unit V
Dynamic Games with incomplete information:
Introduction, Perfect Bayesian Equilibrium in Multi-stage games,
Extensive-Form and Strategic-Form Refinements, Reputation Effects,
Sequential Bargaining under Incomplete Information
Course Outcomes:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 289

Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify strategic situations and represent them as games
CO2: Solve simple games using various techniques
CO3: Recommend and prescribe which strategies to implement
CO4: Develop Static and Dynamic Games
CO5: Develop Repeated Games
CO6: Design Repeated Games with public information
Textbooks:
1. Fudenberg, Drew, Jean Tirole, “Game Theory”, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
1991.
Reference Books:
1. Nisan, Noam, Tim Roughgarden, Eva Tardos, Vijay V. Vazirani,
“Algorithmic Game Theory”, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press,
2007.
2. Fudenberg, Drew, David Levine, “Theory of Learning in Games”, Cambridge,
MA: The MIT Press, 1998.
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Course Title Communication Engineering Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) EC29002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites EC20001/EC21001
Course Objective:
This lab aims to make students practice the fundamental theories of
analog and digital communication systems. Students will use computer
simulation tools such as P-SPICE or Matlab to carry out design experiments.
Students will design, and build and examining trade-offs in different
modulation systems. Perform experiments in converting analog information
into digital data via sampling, quantization, and coding.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO 1: Understand the principle of different types of Amplitude
Modulation(AM) and demodulation. Also gain knowledge on the principle of
Superheterodyne receivers.
CO 2: Generate Frequency Modulated (FM) signals using IC XR2206 with its
principle of operation and apply the FM signal to PLL IC 565 circuit for
demodulation process.
CO 3: Analyze the process of sampling and quantization with different Pulse
modulation techniques and Waveform Coding techniques. Also acquire some
knowledge on multiplexing scheme.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 290

CO 4: Understand the operating principles of different digital modulation
techniques with respective waveforms representation.
CO 5: Design and implementation of Modulator and Demodulator circuits
using discrete components.
CO 6: Simulate the modulated signals using Matlab programs. Formulate
design and real life engineering problems for executing minor projects.
Course Title Data Analytics Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS39004 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Course Objectives:
 To explore the fundamental concepts of data analytics.
 To understand the various search methods and visualization
techniques.
 To apply various machine learning techniques for data analysis.
LIST OF EXPERIEMENTS:
1. R AS CALCULATOR APPLICATION
a. Using with and without R objects on console
b. Using mathematical functions on console
c. Write an R script, to create R objects for calculator application and
save in a specified location in disk
2. DESCRIPTIVE STATISTICS IN R
a. Write an R script to find basic descriptive statistics using summary
b. Write an R script to find subset of dataset by using subset ()
3. READING AND WRITING DIFFERENT TYPES OF DATASETS
a. Reading different types of data sets (.txt, .csv) from web and disk
and writing in file in specific disk location.
b. Reading Excel data sheet in R
c. Reading XML dataset in R
4. VISUALIZATIONS
a. Find the data distributions using box and scatter plot.
b. Find the outliers using plot.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 291

c. Plot the histogram, bar chart and pie chart on sample data
5. CORRELATION AND COVARIANCE
a. Find the correlation matrix.
b. Plot the correlation plot on dataset and visualize giving an overview
of relationships among data on iris data.
c. Analysis of covariance: variance (ANOVA), if data have categorical
variables on iris data
6. REGRESSION MODEL
Import a data from web storage. Name the dataset and now do Logistic
Regression to find out relation between variables that are affecting the
admission of a student in a institute based on his or her GRE score, GPA
obtained and rank of the student. Also check the model is fit or not. require
(foreign), require(MASS).
7. MULTIPLE REGRESSION MODEL
Apply multiple regressions, if data have a continuous independent variable.
Apply on above dataset.
Week-8: REGRESSION MODEL FOR PREDICTION
Apply regression Model techniques to predict the data on above dataset.
9. CLASSIFICATION MODEL
a. Install relevant package for classification.
b. Choose classifier for classification problem.
c. Evaluate the performance of classifier.
10. CLUSTERING MODEL
a. Clustering algorithms for unsupervised classification.
b. Plot the cluster data using R visualizations.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Install different Data Analytics tools
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 292

CO2: Examine the basics of data analytics using concepts of statistics and
probability.
CO3: Apply various inferential statistical analysis techniques to describe
data sets and withdraw useful conclusions from acquired data set.
CO4: Explore the data analytics techniques using various tools
CO5: Apply data science concept and methods to solve problems in real
world context
CO6: Select advanced techniques to conduct thorough and insightful
analysis and interpret the results
Reference Book :
1. Yanchang Zhao, “R and Data Mining: Examples and Case Studies”,
Academic Press, Elsevier, 1st Edition, 2013
Web References:
1.http://www.r-bloggers.com/how-to-perform-a-logistic-regression-in-r/
2.http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/r/dae/rreg.htm
3.http://www.coastal.edu/kingw/statistics/R-tutorials/logistic.html 4.
http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/r/data/binary.csv
Course Title Advance Programming Laboratory
Course Code (Credit) CS39006 (L-T-P-Cr: 2-0-0-2)
Course Objectives:
 Explore and understand how to use the R documentation
 Expand R by installing R packages
 Read Structured Data into R from various sources
 Understand the different data types and structures in R
 Using R for mathematical operations
 Use of vectorized and matrix calculations
 Write user-defined and looping constructs R functions
 Reshape data to support different analyses
LIST OF EXPERIEMENTS:
1. Download and install R-Programming environment and install basic
packages using install.packages() command in R.
2. Learn all the basics of R-Programming (Data types, Variables,
Operators etc.)
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 293

3. Implement R-Loops with different examples.
4. Learn the basics of functions in R and implement with examples.
5. Implement data frames in R.
6. Implement different String Manipulation functions in R.
7. Implement different data structures in R (Vectors, Lists, Data Frames)
8. Write a program to read a csv file and analyze the data in the file in R
9. Create pie charts and bar charts using R.
10. Create a data set and do statistical analysis on the data using
R.
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Install, configure and install different packages in R.
CO2: Import and export files.
CO3: Make use of different data structures.
Perform mathematical operations.
Perform operations for different data types.
Perform analysis of data in different perspective.
Reference Book:
1. Jared P. Lander, R for Everyone: Advanced Analytics and Graphics,
Second Edition, Pearson Education, 2018.
Web References:
1. https://www.r-project.org/
2. https://www.tutorialspoint.com/r/index.htm
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 294

COMPUTER SCIENCE & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
Detailed Syllabus
Course Title Wireless Mobile Communication
Course Code (Credit) EC30002 (L- T- P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites EC21002/ EC20008
Course Objective:
The course intends to make the students learn the Cellular Concept,
RF signal propagation through a wireless channel, Various fading scenarios,
Equalization and diversity techniques, multiple access techniques, and
various signal degradation factors associated with wireless
communication and to study numerous wireless standards and current
technological trends in this domain.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Channel Coding:
Error Correction Codes – Introduction to Galois fields, polynomial
arithmetic, linear block codes for error correction – Generator matrix,
Encoding, Parity Check matrix, Decoding – Standard array decoding and
Syndrome decoding. Cyclic Codes – Generation of codes, encoding and
syndrome decoding, Introduction to Convolutional codes
UNIT II
Cellular Communication System:
Cellular Concept,System Architecture, Spectrum Allocation, Frequency
Reuse Channel Assignment Strategies, Co-channel Interference & System
Capacity. Hand off, Hand off structure, Practical Hand off consideration,
Prioritizing Hand off, Power Control, Near – Far Problem,System capacity,
Improvement Techniques : Cell splitting, Sectoring, Micro cell Zone concept
UNIT III
RF Propagation and Fading:
Free space propagation model, propagation mechanism
Large Scale fading, Diffraction & Scattering by high – raise structures,
shadowing and path loss. Small Scale Fading, Doppler and time-delay
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 295

spread, coherence Bandwidth and coherence-Time, Types of Small – Scale
Fading
UNIT IV
Equalization and Diversity principles
Fundamentals of Equalization, Adaptive equalizer. Concept of diversity,
Types of diversity (space, time, frequency, polarization, Rake receiver
UNIT V
Different Multiple access Techniques and Spread Spectrum modulation
Multiplexing and multiple access, TDD and FDD techniques, Description of
FDMA, TDMA, CDMA systems. Architecture and special features of GSM.
Spread Spectrum Modulation and principle, PN sequence and its properties.
Direct sequence SS and frequency – hopped SS (DS – SS and FH – SS), TH –
SS.
UNIT VI
OFDM and Multi-carrier Communication
Data transmission using multiple carriers, multi carrier modulation with
overlapping sub channels, mitigation of sub carrier fading. Discrete
Implementation of multi carrier modulation, DFT and its properties, OFDM
Principle, The Cyclic Prefix. Matrix representation of OFDM, Multi-carrier
Communication with OFDM
UNIT V
Technological Trends in Wireless and Mobile Communication
Concept of Multi input multi output Antenna system, Narrow band MIMO
model. MIMO channel capacity, MIMO Diversity gain, Space time
Modulation & Coding, LTE and LTE Advanced support technologies,
Cognitive radio, mobility management, IEEE 802.11, Bluetooth.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Comprehend the significance of terminology associated with cellular
architecture and determine the performance parameters of cell
splitting, sectoring, and microcell zone techniques.
CO2: Solve problems associated with basic propagation models like two ray
reflection model, Knife edge propagation model etc and able to analyze
signal degradation in wireless out door propagation models.
CO3: Analyse the concepts and solve problems on various modulation
schemes like QPSK, Off set QPSK, π/4 QPSK, MSK, GMSK, QAM used
in present day mobile communication.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 296

CO4: Comprehend and analyse the concepts of channel equalization and
various diversity techniques.
CO5: Comprehend and analyse the concepts of Spread Spectrum and its
applications along with different types of multiple access techniques
and able to solve related numerical associated with this.
CO6: Comprehend and analyse the concepts of MC-CDMA and OFDMA
modulation and the concepts of MIMO antenna systems along with
different technological trends in wireless and mobile communication
Textbooks:
1. Wireless Communication – T.S.Rappaport – Pearson Education
2. Wireless Communication – Andrea Goldsmith – Cambridge Press
Reference Books: :
1. Wireless and Cellular Communication – C. Y. Lee – McGraw Hill
2. Mobile Communication – Schillar – Pearson Education
3. LTE for UMTS, Evolution to LTE Advanced-Harri Holma,Antti Toskala-
Wiley
Course Title Information Theory and Coding
Course Code (Credit) CS20008 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites MA21002
Course Objectives
 To define and apply the basic concepts of information theory
(entropy, channel capacity etc.)
 To learn the principles and applications of information theory in
communication systems
 To study various data compression methods and describe the most
common such methods
 To understand the theoretical framework upon which error-control
codes
Course Content:
UNIT-I:
Information theory: Concept of amount of information, Information units
Entropy: marginal, Conditional, joint and relative entropies, Relation among
entropies Mutual information, Information rate, Channel capacity,
Redundancy and efficiency of channels Discrete channels, Symmetric
channels, Binary Symmetric Channel, Binary Erasure Channel, Noise-Free
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 297

Channel, Channel with independent I/O, Cascaded channels, Repetition of
symbols, Binary asymmetric channel, Shannon theorem
UNIT-II:
Source coding, Encoding techniques, Purpose of encoding, Instantaneous
codes, Construction of instantaneous codes, Kraft’s inequality, Coding
efficiency and redundancy, Source coding theorem. Construction of basic
source codes, Shannon Fano coding, Shannon Fano Elias coding, Huffman
coding, Minimum variance Huffman coding, Adaptive Huffman coding,
Arithmetic coding, Dictionary coding, Lempel Ziv coding, Channel coding
theorem for DMC
UNIT-III:
Codes for error detection and correction, Parity check coding, Linear block
codes, Error detecting and correcting capabilities, Generator and Parity
check matrices, Standard array and Syndrome decoding, Probability of an
undetected error for Linear Codes over a BSC, Hamming codes, Applications
of Block codes for Error control in data storage system
UNIT-IV:
Cyclic codes, Generator polynomial, Generator and Parity check matrices,
Encoding of cyclic codes, Syndrome computation and error detection,
Decoding of cyclic codes, BCH codes, RS codes, Burst error correction,
Error-trapping decoding for cyclic codes, Majority logic decoding for cyclic
codes.
UNIT-V:
Convolutional codes, Encoding and State, Tree and Trellis diagrams,
Maximum likelihood decoding of convolutional codes, Viterbi algorithm,
Sequential decoding, Stack algorithm. Interleaving techniques, Block and
convolutional interleaving, Coding and interleaving applied to CD digital
audio system, CIRC encoding and decoding, Interpolation and muting.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Solve problems on measurement of information and errors.
CO2: Explain the significance of quantitative measure of information in the
communications systems
CO3: Design various source codes and channel codes
CO4: Differentiate between lossy and lossless compression techniques
CO5: Model encoders and decoders for block and cyclic codes
CO6: Discuss the significance of codes in various applications
Textbooks:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 298

3. T. M. Cover, J. A. Thomas, “Elements of Information Theory”, 2nd
Edition, Wiley.
4. Ranjan. Bose, Information Theory Coding and Cryptography, Third
Edition, McGraw Hill.
Course Title Digital Signal Processing
Course Code (Credit) EC30023 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites EC20006
Course Objective:
This course will begin with an introduction to analog and digital signal
processing, then elaborates on various transformation techniques to signal,
and finally presents an idea about actual implementations of these
techniques in today's hardware using software systems. The course begins
with a discussion on discrete-time signals and systems. This will be followed
by introducing the Z transform, DFT, and its properties and system
theoretic implications. Later, the concepts and foundations of digital filter
design and its realization are built up for FIR and IIR filters.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Brief idea about analog and digital signals, Definition of signal and systems,
Signal Processing (ASP and DSP), Advantages and Disadvantages of DSP,
Application of DSP.
UNIT II
Discrete time Signals & Systems:
Discrete Time Signals and its classification, Discrete Time Systems and
its classification, Operation on Discrete Time Signals, LTI systems Linear
convolution sum and de-convolution, Properties of convolution,
Applications of convolution, Interconnection of LTI systems, Correlation of
two sequences & its Properties
UNIT III
Fourier Transform, DTFT, DFT, IDFT and FFT: Introduction to Fourier
Transform, Discrete Time Fourier Transform, DTFT of discrete time signal
and its properties, Discrete Fourier Transform and its Properties, Inverse
Discrete Fourier Transform, Circular convolution and its properties, Long
duration sequences by digital filter method (Over-lap save and Over-lap add
method), Fast Fourier Transform and its properties.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 299

UNIT IV
Z-Transform:
Introduction to Z-Transform, Definition of Z-Transform, ROC of the Z-
Transform, Properties of ROC, Properties of Z-Transform, Inverse Z-
Transform, Long division method, Partial Fraction Expansion Method,
Stability analysis of Discrete Time Systems.
UNIT V
Digital filters (IIR & FIR FILTERS):
Introduction to Digital Filter, Design of IIR filter using Design of IIR filter
using impulse invariance technique, Design of IIR filter using Bilinear
transformation, Design of FIR Filter using Rectangular, Hamming Window,
Blackmann window, Kaiser window, and Bartlett window.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Classification of analog and discrete time signals; perform
different operations on discrete time signals.
CO2. Analysis of discrete time systems in time domain.
CO3. Analyze characteristics of signals and systems in frequency domain
using Fourier analysis and its properties.
CO4: Comprehend the properties of z-transform; perform z-transform and
its inverse; analysis of discrete time systems using z-transform.
CO5: Design IIR filter with given specifications using impulse invariance
and bilinear transformation techniques.
CO6: Design of FIR filter with given specifications using different
windowing techniques.
Textbooks:
1. Digital Signal Processing- J.G. Proakis & D. G. Manolakes, 4th Edition-
PHI.
2. Signals & Systems – Alan V Oppeinhem, Alan S Willsky– 2nd/ 2011–
PHI.
Reference Books:
1. Principle of Signal Processing and Linear System: B.P. Lathi, First
Edition, Oxford University Press.
2. Digital Signal Processing: P. Ramesh Babu: Scitech,2nd Edition.
3. Digital Signal Processing - Computer Based Approach: S. K . Mitra,
Second Edition, MGH.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 300

Course Title Smart Antennas
Course Code (Credit) EC40018 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites EC20003
Course Objective:
This course focuses on advanced topics in design of smart antennas
systems, including antenna array principles and smart antenna algorithms
such as angle of arrival estimation and antenna beam forming. The course
provides the student with the basic principles of smart antenna systems,
which is an adaptive antenna array consisting of multiple antennas.
Objective is to use intelligent algorithms to calculate the optimal antenna
combination to make optimal use of beamforming and antenna array
technologies, thereby reaping better benefits.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Analysis of linear and circular antenna arrays, and phased array antenna.
Array synthesis methods. Adaptive antennas and smart antennas, adaptive
processing using minimum variance distortionless technique.
UNIT II
Direct Data Domain Least Square Approaches to Adaptive Processing:
Direct data domain least square procedures, eigenvalue method, forward
method, backward method, forward-backward method, main beam
construction for prevention of signal cancellation.
UNIT III
Mutual Coupling in Adaptive Smart Antennas:
Mutual coupling among an array of dipoles (qualitative), compensation using
open-circuit voltages and minimum norm formulation, effect of mutual
coupling for constant jammers and constant signals, compensation for
mutual coupling for constant jammers and constant signals.
UNIT IV
Direction of Arrival (DOA) Estimation and Adaptive Signal Processing
for Smart Antennas:
Problem formulation, transformation matrix to compensate undesired
electromagnetic effects, DOA estimation for a semicircular array, adaptive
processing using a single snapshot from a non-uniformly spaced array in
presence of mutual coupling and near-field scatterers, DOA estimation using
a phased array on a conformal hemispherical surface, DOA estimation
using cyclostationarity, Optimization of base station location for indoor
wireless communication.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 301

Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: analyze linear and circular antenna arrays.
CO2: classify adaptive processing for smart antenna using different
methods.
CO3: solve design problems on smart antenna in presence of mutual
coupling between the antennas.
CO4: compensate mutual coupling in presence of jammers.
CO5: solve design problems on smart antenna by estimating direction of
arrival (DOA) of signal.
CO6. investigate different types of DOA estimation methods.
Textbooks:
1. Smart Antennas – T. K. Sarkar, M. C. Wicks, M. Salazar-Palma and R.
J. Bonneau, Wiley-Interscience, 1st Ed., 2003.
Reference Books: :
2. Smart Antenna Engineering - Ahmed El-Zooghby, Artech House, 1st
Ed., 2005.
3. Smart Antennas for Wireless Communication: With MATLAB- F.
Gross, McGraw Hill, 1st Ed., 2005.
Course Title Satellite Communication Systems
Course Code (Credit) EC30022 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites EC20003/ EC20008
Course Objective:
The course offers the students to the basic concept regarding satellite
communication. Satellite communication systems carry much of the world's
communication traffic, especially over oceans, and are extensively used for
television distribution and navigation. Satellites are also being involved for
data relay and personal communication systems. This course will help the
students to know how to place a satellite in orbit and about the earth &
space segment. The satellite services like broadcasting, GPS, VSAT with
multiple access techniques are also introduced.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Satellite Communication:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 302

Frequency spectrum for satellite communication, Types of orbits, Kepler's
Laws of planetary motion, Orbital perturbations, Geostationary orbit,
Satellite launching, General satellite communication, Block diagram uplink,
Downlink frequencies, Types of modulation techniques, Satellite launch
vehicles - Arian, SLV space shuttle.
UNIT II
Losses/Attenuation:
Signal loss on transmission through earth's atmosphere, Atmospheric
losses, Ionospheric effects, Rain attenuation,
UNIT III
Module 3(Satellite link design):
Link equation, uplink/downlink design, Transmission losses, Interference,
System noise temperature, Link power budget.
UNIT IV
Satellite sub-system:
Antenna sub-systems, Altitude and orbit control sub-system, Power sub-
system, Communication sub-system, TTC&M sub-systems.
UNIT V
Satellite Application:
Satellite application in TV, Internet, Mobile telephony, Receive only home
TV, Master Antenna :TV, Low earth orbit satellite systems and use, GPS,
INMARSAT, VSAT.
UNIT VI
Satellite Access techniques:
Multiple access techniques - FDMA, TDMA, CDMA, SS-TDMA, Interference
in FDMA systems, Random access techniques.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: comprehend the basic parameters for satellite communication.
CO2: know the satellite launching methods and orbital control
mechanisms.
CO3: comprehend the different types of losses in satellite link and satellite
link design.
CO4: learn different types of noises and interferences associated with
satellite link.
CO5: evaluate the stability of a satellite in orbit and different satellite sub-
systems.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 303

CO6: learn the different multiple access techniques used for digital satellite
communication.
Course Title Agile Software Development
Course Code (Credit) CS40006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To develop an understanding on agile software development
 To learn about the principles, planning and requirement in agile
software development
 To understand the testing methodologies in agile software development
 To explore the metrics and measurement in agile software
development
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Agile Software Development: Basics and Fundamentals of Agile Process
Methods, Values of Agile, Principles of Agile, Stakeholders, Challenges
Lean Approach: Waste Management, Kaizen and Kanban, Add process
and products add value, Roles related to the lifecycle, Differences
between Agile and traditional plans, Differences between Agile plans at
different lifecycle phases, Testing plan links between testing, Roles and
key techniques, principles, Understand as a means of assessing the
initial status of a project/ How Agile helps to build quality.
UNIT II
Principles:
Agile and Scrum Principles: Agile Manifesto, Twelve Practices of XP,
Scrum Practices, Applying Scrum, Need of scrum, Working of scrum,
Advanced Scrum Applications, Scrum and the Organization, Scrum
values.
UNIT III
Planning and Product Management:
Agile Product Management: Communication, Planning, Estimation,
Managing the Agile approach, Monitoring progress, Targeting and
motivating the team, Managing business involvement, Escalating issue,
Quality, Risk, Metrics and Measurements.
UNIT IV
Requirements and Testing:
Agile Requirements: User Stories, Backlog Management, Agile
Architecture: Feature Driven Development, Agile Risk Management: Risk
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 304

and Quality Assurance, Agile Tools, Agile Testing: Agile Testing
Techniques, Test- Driven Development, User Acceptance Test, Agile
Review: Agile Metrics and Measurements, The Agile approach to
estimating and project variables.
UNIT V
Measurement:
Agile Measurement, Agile Control, Control parameters, Agile approach to
Risk, The Agile approach to Configuration Management, The Atern
Principles, Atern Philosophy, Rationale for using Atern, Refactoring,
Continuous integration, Automated Build Tools, Scaling Agile for large
projects: Scrum of Scrums, Team collaborations, Scrum, Estimate a Scrum
Project, Track Scrum Projects, Communication in Scrum Projects, Best
Practices to Manage Scrum.
Course Outcomes:
CO1: Assess principles, planning and requirement in agile software
development
CO2: Distinguish between agile software development and traditional
software development
CO3: Identify Agile Requirements
CO4: Suggest agile software development approaches for any real-time
problem
CO5: Provide measurement, metrics necessary for problems involving
agile software development
CO6: Inference best practices of traditional and agile software
development and use in real-time problem solving
Textbooks:
3. Robert C. Martin, “Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns,
and Practices”, First Edition, Pearson Education India, 2002.
4. Mike Cohn “Succeeding with Agile: Software Development Using
Scrum”, Pearson Education, 2010.
Reference Book
2. Robert C Martin, Micah Martin, “Agile Principles, Patterns and
Practices in C#”, Pearson Education, 2007.
Course Title Multimedia Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS40013 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
To understand the different media and design issues in multimedia systems∙
To understand Multimedia security and data hiding for image/video
Course Contents:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 305

UNIT I
Multimedia Elements:
Introduction, Definitions, Applications. Elements. Text, Image/Graphics
Audio, Video, Animation.*
UNIT II
Data and File Formats:
J Compression Techniques, Lossless, Lossy JPEG, MPEG, TIFF, RIFF-
H.261, H.J262, H.263 -File formats-Display Technologies.*
UNIT III
Multimedia Networks:
Protocol - QOS Issues - RTP, RTCP, RTSP, SIP - Media on demand –ITV -
STB Broadcast Schemes for VoD Buffer Management- Multimedia over
wireless networks.*
UNIT IV
Multimedia Security and Forensics:
Multimedia encryption, Digital Watermarking Security Attacks, Digital
Forensics taxonomy, goals/requirements, Forensic Data Acquisition,
Forensics Analysis and Validation.*
UNIT V
Multimedia Data Hiding:
Overview, Data hiding framework, Key elements, Basic embedding
mechanisms, Techniques for Embedding multiple bits-Quantitative model
for Uneven embedding Capacity, CER-VER, Data Hiding in Binary image,
Multilevel embedding-Multilevel image and video data hiding.*
*Programming assignments are mandatory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Ability to design multimedia components efficiently
CO2: Ability to develop integrated, collaborative multimedia systems
CO3: Ability to develop data hiding algorithms for the specialized
applications
Textbooks: ::
1. K. Andleigh, Kiran Thakrar , Multimedia Systems Design, Pearson
Education, 2015
2. ZeNian Li, S. Drew, “Fundamentals of Multimedia”, Springer, 2021
Reference Books::
1. Ralf Steinmetz and Klara, “Multimedia Computing, Communications
and Applications”, Pearson Education, 2009
2. Min Wu, Bede Liu, “Multimedia Data Hiding”, Springer-Verlag, 2002
Cox, M. Miller, and J. Bloom, "Digital Watermarking", Morgan Kaufman
Publishers, 2001
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 306

3. Chun-Shien Lu, “Multimedia Security : Steganography and Digital
Watermarking techniques for Protection of Intellectual Property”,
Springer Inc 2007
4. Wenjun Zeng, Heather Yu and Ching, Yung Lin, “Multimedia Security
technologies for Digital rights Management”, Elsevier Inc 2006
Course Title Computer Vision
Course Code (Credit) CS30026 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS40007
Course Objective:
 To understand image formation and camera calibration
 To understand stereo vision and stereo camera geometry
 To be able to know structures from motions
 To know machine learning for computer vision
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Image formation and camera calibration:
Introduction to computer vision, Geometric camera models, Orthographic
and perspective projections, Weak perspective projection, Intrinsic and
extrinsic camera parameters, Linear and nonlinear approaches of camera
calibration.
UNIT II
Feature detection and matching:
Edge detection, Interest points and corners, Local image features, Feature
matching and Hough transform, Model fitting and RANSAC, Scale invariant
feature matching.
UNIT III
Stereo Vision:
Stereo camera geometry and epipolar constraints, Essential and
fundamental matrix, Image rectification, Local methods for stereo matching:
Correlation and multi-scale approaches, Global methods for stereo
matching: Order constraints and dynamic programming, Smoothness and
graph-based energy minimization, Optical flow.
UNIT IV
Shape from Shading:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 307

Modeling pixel brightness, Reflection at surfaces, The Lambertian and
specular model, Area sources, Photometric stereo: Shape from multiple
shaded images, Modeling inter-reflection, Shape from one shaded image.
UNIT V:
Structure from motion:
Camera self-calibration, Euclidean structure and motion from two images,
Euclidean structure and motion from multiple images, Structure and motion
from weak-perspective and multiple cameras.
UNIT VI:
Machine Learning for Computer Vision:
Introduction to Machine Learning, Image Classification, Object Detection,
Semantic Segmentation, Case study on computer vision and machine
learning for applied research.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Categorizing of image formation and camera calibration
CO2: Apply the concepts of feature detection, Feature reduction, and matching.
CO3: Analyze the concepts of stereo vision and stereo camera geometry.
CO4: Design the concepts of generating shapes from shading.
CO5: Identifying the concepts of structures from motions.
CO6: Determine the concepts of machine learning for computer vision for applied
research.
Textbooks:
2. Forsyth, D. A. and Ponce, J., "Computer Vision: A Modern Approach",
2nd Ed., Pearson Education.
Reference Books:
2. Hartley, R. and Zisserman, A., "Multiple View Geometry in Computer
Vision", Cambridge University Press.
PROGRAMME LABORATORY COURSES
Course Title Wireless Communication & Networking Lab
Course Code (Credit) EC39002 (L-T-P-Cr: 0-0-2-1)
Pre-requisites EC21002
Course Objective:
The laboratory course introduces readers to the various aspects of wireless
& cellular communication and computer networks. The experiments are
performed using open-source and industry-accepted simulators such as
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 308

NS2 and Cisco packet tracer, and software tools like Qualnet, etc.
Furthermore, wireless communication-related experiments are performed on
the Virtual Labs platforms.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: design, simulate and evaluate the performance of different wired
network topologies using NS-2.
CO2: evaluate the performance of contention window size in IEEE 802.11
wireless Local Area Network (LAN) using NS-2.
CO3: analyze the effects of different physical, MAC and network layer
parameters for an adhoc network using Qualnet 5.2.
CO4: analyze the effects of different physical, MAC and network layer
parameters for an infrastructure network using Qualnet 5.2.
CO5: analyze and comprehend effect of shadowing on path-loss formula
using Virtual platforms
CO6: design, simulate and evaluate the performance of virtual LANs (VLANs)
under wired, wireless (heterogeneous) network configurations using
CISCO® Packet Tracer.
OPEN ELECTIVE COURSES (OE)
Course Title Software Engineering Fundamentals
Course Code (Credit) CS30018 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To know software process models
 To understand application of software process models
 To be able to know requirements of the software projects
 To apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
 To be able to distinguish different testing methodologies
Course Contents:
Unit I
Software Process Models:
Software product, Software crisis, Handling complexity through Abstraction
and Decomposition, Overview of software development activities. Process
Models: Classical waterfall model, Iterative waterfall model, Prototyping
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 309

model, Evolutionary model, Spiral model, RAD model. Agile models: Extreme
programming and Scrum. Software Requirement Engineering
Unit II
Software Requirement Engineering:
Requirement Gathering and analysis, Functional and non functional
requirements, Software Requirement Specification(SRS) , IEEE 830
guidelines, Decision tables and trees.
Unit III
Software Project Management:
Responsibilities of a Software project manager, Project planning, Metrics for
project size estimation, Project estimation techniques, Empirical estimation
techniques, COCOMO models, Scheduling, Organization & team structure,
Staffing, Risk management, Software configuration management.
Unit IV
Structural Analysis & Design:
Overview of design process: High level and detailed design, Cohesion &
coupling, Modularity and layering, Function–Oriented software design:
Structural Analysis, Structural Design (DFD and Structured Chart), Object
Oriented Analysis & Design, Command language, menu and iconic
interfaces.
Unit V
Testing Strategies:
Coding, Code Review, Documentation, Testing:, Unit testing, Black-box
Testing, White-box testing, Cyclomatic complexity measure, Coverage
analysis, Debugging, Integration testing, System testing, Regression testing.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Elaborate on different software process models
CO2: Evaluate the requirements of the software projects.
CO3: Apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
CO4: Translate the baseline requirement specifications into design process.
CO5: Distinguish different testing methodologies.
CO6: Work ethically in a team on software projects
Textbooks:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 310

2. Fundamentals of Software Engineering, Rajib Mall , PHI, Latest
edition.
Reference books:
3. Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, Roger S. Pressman,
Eighth edition, MGH.
4. Software Engineering, Ian Sommerville, Tenth Edition, Pearson
Education.
Course Title Essentials of Computer Science
Course Code (Credit) CS30020 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To make the student understand the basic building blocks of a
computing system
 To make the student understand the flow of Concept- Program-Input-
Processing-Output
 To introduce low level language, translators, operating system
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Concept, Program, Input, Processing – Output:
Demo of simple high level language program to low level machine level
language program, Tracing their execution from high level to circuit level/
gate level, Overview of the Hardware Description Language (HDL),
Designing a set of elementary logic gates from primitive NAND gates. Design
of binary adders, Culminating in the construction of a simple ALU
(Arithmetic–Logic Unit) using logic gates, Design of memory hierarchy from
elementary flip–flop gates to registers and RAM units of arbitrary sizes
using logic gates.
UNIT II
Introduction to Low Level Language:
Introducing an instruction set in both binary and assembly (symbolic)
versions, Writing some low-level assembly programs, Other details of
computer architecture, Basic language translation techniques: parsing,
symbol table, macro, assembly
UNIT III
Introduction to Virtual Machine:
The role of virtual machines in modern software architectures like Java
and .NET, Introduction of a typical VM language, Focusing on stack–based
arithmetic, Logical and memory access operations, VM abstraction and
implementation, Focusing on stack-based flow-of-control and subroutine
call-and-return techniques.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 311

UNIT IV
Introduction to Compilers:
Context-free grammars and recursive parsing algorithms, Building a
syntax analyzer (tokenizer and parser), The syntax analyzer to generate
XML code reflecting the structure of the translated program, Code
generation, Low- level handling of arrays and objects.
UNIT V
Introduction to OS:
Discussion of OS/hardware and OS/software design trade–offs, and
time/space efficiency considerations, Design and implementation of OS,
memory management, string processing, I/O handling algorithms.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Trace the fundamentals of digital logic design
CO2: Classify programming languages
CO3: Explore the use of compiler
CO4: Generate low level code for simple programs
CO5: Understand functionality of an operating systems
CO6: Design simple arithmetic and memory units
Textbooks:
2. Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken, “The Elements of Computing
System: Building a Modern Computer from First Principles”, MIT
Press, 2005.
Course Title Object Oriented Programming
Course Code (Credit) CS30022 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites C Programming
Course Objectives
 To understand the difference between structure-oriented and
object-oriented programming
 To know various object-oriented features
 To know exception handling and generic programming
 To test and debug solutions in C++
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 312

Object oriented programming concepts: Objects, Classes, Encapsulation and
abstraction, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Dynamic binding, Message passing;
C++ Programming basics: Character set, Keyword, Constant, Variable, Data
types, Operator & expression, Control structure (branching & looping),
typecasting, Array & strings, Streams based I/O, Type conversions and
casting, Name space, Scope resolution operator (::); Function: Parameter
passing (i) by value, (ii) by address, (iii) by reference, Inline function,
Function overloading, Default arguments.
UNIT II
Class and Object:
Class and Object: Defining class with functions and data members, Creating
& deleting objects by using new and delete operators respectively, Array of
Objects, Objects as function argument, Static Data members and member
functions, Function with default arguments, Function overloading;
Constructor and Destructors: Definition of constructors and its uses, Types
of constructors: Default constructor, Parameterized constructor, Copy
constructor, Constructor with dynamic allocation, Dynamic Constructors,
Constructor Overloading, Destructors.
UNIT III
Inheritance:
Concept of inheritance: Defining derived and base classes, Class hierarchies,
public, private, and protected derivations; Types of Inheritance: Single
Inheritance, Multilevel Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Hierarchical
Inheritance, Hybrid Inheritance, Virtual base class: Function overriding,
Constructors/Destructors in derived classes: Constructors invocation and
data members initialization in derived classes, Member classes: classes
within classes.
UNIT IV
Polymorphism:
Operator overloading: Overloading unary operators, Binary operators,
overloading binary operators using friend function and member function,
Rules for overloading operators; Polymorphism: Introduction to pointers:
Pointers to objects, Pointer to derived class object, This pointer, Compile
time polymorphism: Review of Function Overloading and Operator
overloading; Run time polymorphism: Virtual functions, Pure virtual
functions, Abstract class, Virtual constructors and destructors
UNIT V
Exception Handling, Templates, Files and Streams:
Exception Handling: Basics of Exception Handling, Exception Handling
Mechanism: The keyword try, Throw and catch. Templates: Need of
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 313

template, Class Templates: Definition, Class Template with multiple
parameters, Function Templates: Definition, Function Template with
multiple parameters. Files and Streams: Introduction to file handling: text
file Vs. binary file, Hierarchy of file stream classes: Functions of File Stream
classes, Steps to process a File in a program. Different functions used in file,
File modes(Sequential and random), File pointers and their Manipulations,
Error handling during file operation
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Compare the features between structure-oriented and object-oriented
programming
CO2: Develop object-oriented programming language like C++ and
associated libraries to develop object-oriented programs.
CO3: Apply various object-oriented features like class, object, inheritance,
data abstraction, encapsulation polymorphism to solve various computing
problems
CO4: Design application using operator-overloading, contracture and
destructor
CO5: Apply exception handling and use built-in classes from STL
CO6: Implement, test and debug solutions in C++.
Textbooks:
3. Object Oriented Programming with C++, Reema Thareja, OXFORD
University Press, Revised First Edition, 2018.
4. Object Oriented Programming with C++, E.Balaguruswamy, McGraw
Hill Education; Seventh edition 2017.
Reference Books :
4. C++ completes reference, Herbert Schildt, MGH, 10th Edition, 2002
5. C++ How to Program, Deitel and Deitel, Pearson Education, 10th
Edition, 2011.
6. Programming in C++ Ashok N Kamthane, Pearson Education, 2nd
Edition, 2003
Course Title Fundamentals of Data Structures
Course Code (Credit) CS30024 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To find the Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
 To understand the various techniques of sorting and searching
 To design and implement arrays, stacks, queues, and linked lists
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 314

 To understand the complex data structures such as trees and graphs
 To solve real life problems
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Development of Algorithms, Notations and analysis, Storage structures for
arrays, Sparse matrices, Stacks and Queues: Representations and
applications.
UNIT II
Linked List, Stacks, and Queues:
Linked Lists, Linked stacks and queues, Operations on polynomials, Doubly
linked lists, Circularly linked lists, Dynamic storage management, Garbage
collection and compaction.
UNIT III
Trees:
Tree representation, Binary Trees, Binary search trees, Tree traversal,
Expression manipulation, Symbol table construction, Height balanced trees,
AVL trees.
UNIT IV
Graphs:
Graphs, Representation of graphs, BFS, DFS, Topological sort, String
representation and manipulations, Pattern matching.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use the concepts of data structure, data type and abstract data type
to develop solutions for engineering problems.
CO2: Develop programs to implement linear data structures such as
stacks, queues, linked lists, etc.
CO3: Apply the concept of trees and graph data structures in real world
scenarios
CO4: Comprehend the implementation of sorting and searching algorithms
CO5: Compare Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
CO6: Effectively choose the data structure that efficiently models the
information in a problem.
Textbooks:
4. J. P. Tremblay, P. G. Sorenson, “An Introduction to Data
Structures with Applications”, Second Edition, Tata McGraw Hill,
1981.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 315

5. M. Tenenbaum, Augestien, “Data Structures using C”, Third Edition,
Pearson Education, 2007.
6. Mark Allen Weiss, “Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in
C”, Third Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2006.
Reference Book:
2. Sartaj Sahni, “Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++”,
Universities Press (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2008.
COMPUTER SCIENCE & SYSTEM ENGINEERING
Course Title Principle of Signals & Systems
Course Code (Credit) EC20006 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
This course will begin with an introduction to analog and digital signal
processing, then elaborates on various transformation techniques to signals,
and finally presents an idea about actual implementations of these methods
in today's hardware and software systems. The course begins with a
discussion on analog-time, discrete-time signals and, systems. The syllabus
revisits the continuous time transform methods like Fourier and Laplace.
This will be followed by discrete time transform methods like the Z
transform, DFT, and its properties and system theoretic implications. Later,
the concepts and foundations of digital filter design and its realization are
built up for FIR and IIR filters.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to signals and System:
Representation of continuous and discrete time signals, Basic operations
Sampling Theorem, Linear convolution, Correlation.
UNIT II
Revision of Fourier and Laplace analysis:
Significance of Fourier series in LTI system, continuous time Fourier series
formula. Dirichlet conditions & properties, S-plane mapping, ROC
properties, and examples, Relationship between Fourier and Laplace
Transform, Pole-zero Plot,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 316

Discrete time Fourier Transforms: Discrete Time Fourier Transform,
Conditions and properties of DTFT, Discrete Fourier Transform, Properties
of DFT, Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform.
Z-Transform: - Z-transform, ROC and it’s properties, Stability analysis
Digital FIR filters: Introduction to Digital Filter: FIR, IIR and their
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Analyze and plot continuous and discrete signals, understand
sampling process, determine respective characteristics
CO2: Classify various types of systems and analyze system characteristics
in time domain
CO3: Determine and understand appropriate continuous time
transformation technique for signal analysis.
CO4: Analyze the signal and its properties in its frequency domain using
discrete time transformation techniques.
CO5: Apply transforms and analyze system stability.
CO6: Understand the use of digital filter and their application.
Textbooks:
3. Digital Signal Processing- J.G. Proakis & D. G. Manolakes, 4th Edition-
PHI
4. Signals & Systems – Alan V Oppeinhem, Alan S Willsky– 2nd/ 2011–
PHI
Reference Books:
1. Principle of Signal Processing and Linear System: B.P. Lathi, First
Edition, Oxford University Press.
2. Digital Signal Processing: P. Ramesh Babu: Scitech,2nd Edition.
3. Digital Signal Processing - Computer Based Approach: S. K . Mitra,
Second Edition, MGH.
Course Title Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Course Code (Credit) CS30001 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21001
Course Objectives:
 To understand the importance of algorithm
 To analyze the complexity of an algorithm in terms of time and space
complexities
 To understand various problem solving techniques
 To learn about amortized analysis of algorithms
 To design and implement various programming paradigms and its
complexity
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 317

Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Concepts in algorithm analysis & design motivation, Space and Time
Complexity of algorithm, Asymptotic Notations (Big Oh, Omega, Theta),
Analysis of time complexity of Insertion Sort by step count method, Solving
recurrences using Iterative, Substitution, Recurrence Tree, Master theorem
UNIT II
Divide & Conquer and Greedy Approaches:
Divide and Conquer method, Greedy method, Huffman code, Minimum
spanning trees, Dijkstra algorithm, Knapsack problem, Job sequencing with
deadlines.
UNIT III
Dynamic Programming Approaches:
Dynamic Programming, Knapsack problem, Matrix Chain Multiplication,
longest common subsequence Multistage graphs, All pair’s shortest paths,
Optimal binary search trees, Travelling salesman problem.
UNIT IV
Amortization:
Randomized Algorithms and Amortized Analysis, Las Vegas and Monte Carlo
types, Randomized quick sort and its analysis, Min-Cut algorithm.
UNIT V
NP Problems:
NP-Hard and NP-complete problems, Basic concepts, Reducibility, Vertex
cover, 3CNF_SAT, clique, Hamiltonian cycle, TSP, Approximation algorithms,
Vertex cover, TSP.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Analyze the time and space complexity for any algorithm
CO2: Compare and contrast different algorithm techniques
CO3: Apply the design techniques of algorithm in solving real world
problems
CO4: Perform amortize analysis for any algorithm
CO5: Modify existing algorithms to apply in common engineering design
situations
CO6: Use NP class of problems to propose approximation algorithms
Textbooks:
1. T. Cormen, C. Lieserson, R. Rivest, C. Stein, “Introductions to
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 318

Algorithms”, Third Edition, Prentice- Hall/India, 2009.
Reference Books:
3. A. M. Tenenbaum, Y. Langsam, M. J. Augestien, “Data Structures using
C”, First Edition, Pearson Education, 2007.
4. E. Harowitz, S. Sahni, S. Rajsekaran, “Fundamentals of Computer
Algorithms”, Universities press.
Course Title Compiler
Course Code (Credit) CS30006 (L- T- P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21001
Course Objectives:
 To introduce the major concept areas in compiler design and know the
various phases of the compiler
 To understand the various parsing algorithms and comparison of the
same
 To provide practical programming skills necessary for designing a
compiler
 To gain knowledge about the various code generation principles
 To understand the necessity for code optimization
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to Compilation:
Compilers, Analysis of the source program, Phases of a compiler, Cousins
of the Compiler, Grouping of Phases, Compiler construction tools, Lexical
Analysis, Role of Lexical Analyzer, Input Buffering, Specification of Tokens.
Lab Component: Tutorial on LEX / FLEX tool, Tokenization exercises using
LEX.
UNIT II
Syntax Analysis:
Role of the parser, Writing Grammars, Context, Free Grammars, Top Down
parsing, Recursive Descent Parsing, Predictive Parsing, Bottom-up parsing,
Shift Reduce Parsing, Operator Precedent Parsing, LR Parsers, SLR Parser,
Canonical LR Parser, LALR Parser.
Lab Component: Tutorial on YACC tool, Parsing exercises using YACC tool.
UNIT III
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 319

Intermediate Code Generation:
Intermediate languages, Declarations, Assignment Statements, Boolean
Expressions, Case Statements, Back patching, Procedure calls.
Lab Component: A sample language like C-lite is to be chosen.
Intermediate code generation exercises for assignment statements, loops,
conditional statements using LEX/YACC.
UNIT IV
Code Optimization and Run Time Environments:
Introduction, Principal Sources of Optimization, Optimization of basic
Blocks, DAG representation of Basic Blocks, Introduction to Global Data
Flow Analysis, Runtime Environments, Source Language issues, Storage
Organization, Storage Allocation strategies, Access to non-local names,
Parameter Passing, Error detection and recovery.
Lab Component: Local optimization to be implemented using LEX/YACC
for the sample language.
UNIT V
Code Generation:
Issues in the design of code generator, The target machine, Runtime
Storage management, Basic Blocks and Flow Graphs, Next-use
Information, A simple Code generator, DAG based code generation,
Peephole Optimization. Lab Component: DAG construction, Simple Code
Generator implementation, DAG based code generation using LEX/YACC
for the sample language.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the phases of a compiler to translate from source code to
executable code
CO2: Apply the knowledge of LEX & YACC tool to develop a scanner and
parser
CO2: Design and develop software system for backend of the compiler
CO3: Suggest the necessity for appropriate code optimization techniques
CO4: Conclude the appropriate code generator algorithm for a given
source language
CO5: Identify the effectiveness of optimization and learn various machine
independent and machine dependent optimization techniques.
CO6: Design a compiler for any programming language
Textbooks:
3. Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D Ullman, “Compilers: Principles, Techniques
and Tools”, Second Edition,Pearson Education , 2014.
4. Jean Paul Tremblay, Paul G Serenson, “The Theory and Practice of
Compiler Writing”, BS Publications, 2005.
Reference Books:
1. Allen I. Holub, “Compiler Design in C”, Prentice Hall of India, 2003.
2. C. N. Fischer, R. J. LeBlanc, “Crafting a compiler with C”, Benjamin
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 320

Cummings, 2003.
3. Kenneth C. Louden, “Compiler Construction: Principles and
Practice”, Thompson Learning, 2003.
Course Title ARM and Advanced Microprocessors
Course Code (Credit) EC30007 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
The objective of this course is to teach the higher-level concepts of Advanced
Microprocessors (like 80286, 80386 and Pentium) and ARM to the students.
The students learn about Multitasking, Virtual memory, Memory
management, Paging, TLB, RISC features, Pipelining and Branch Prediction
like concepts. They develop skills for writing programs on ARM to solve
simple problems as well as some real time applications.
Course Contents:
Introduction:
Overview of Intel higher level Processors, Concept of Multitasking, Virtual
memory & Memory management.
Intel 80286 & 80386:
Brief outline of Processor Architecture, Mode of operation, Segment
descriptor, Privilege level & protection and Task switching in 80286, Virtual
86 mode, Paging and TLB in 80386
Pentium Processor:
Features of RISC processors & Implementation of RISC features in Pentium,
Pipelining, Superscalar execution & Branch prediction Technique
ARM & Interfacing:
ARM design, ARM Processor fundamentals: Registers, CPSR, Memory map,
Pipelines, Exceptions, Interrupt Vector Table, Introduction to ARM
Instruction set and Thumb instructions, Interfacing – LCD, ADC, DAC,
Stepper motor, UART
Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: understand the concepts implemented in higher level Processors like
Multitasking, Virtual Memory, Memory Management etc.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 321

CO2: examine the mode of Operation of 80286, Concept of program
invisible registers, Segment Descriptors etc.
CO3: analyze Segment Descriptors, Privilege level and Protection, Virtual
'86 Mode and Paging in 80386, enhanced features incorporated in
80486
CO4: analyze the RISC features implemented in the design of Pentium
Processors, Parallel processing through U & V Pipelines /
Superscalar Execution and Branch Prediction Techniques
CO5: acquire the knowledge of a 32-bit ARM Processor, its RISC features,
Registers, Pipelining and Interrupts
CO6: examine the 32-bit ARM instruction set, 16-bit Thumb instructions
and Interfacing
Textbooks:
1. Advanced Microprocessor and Peripherals - Architecture,
Programming and Interfacing by A. K. Ray and K. M. Bhurchandi -
McGraw Hill Eduction Pvt Ltd - 3rd Edition
2. ARM Assembly Language Programming & Architecture - M A Mazidi
& others, Micro Digital Ed, ISBN: 9780997925906.
Reference Books:
1. The Intel Microprocessors 8086/8088, 80186/80188, 80386, 80486,
Pentium and Pentium Pro - Processor by B. B. Brey - PHI - 8th Edition
2. Microprocessors & Interfacing, Programming & Hardware by D. V. Hall
- TMH - 3rd Edition.
3. ARM Assembly Language: Fundamentals and Techniques by William
Hohl
4. ARM System Developers Guide Design & Optimizing System Software –
Andrew N. Sloss & others - Elsevier.
Course Title Modeling and Simulation
Course Code (Credit) CS30025 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To define important terminologies and classify systems/models
 To understand continuous and discrete modelling of computer
systems
 To understand the analytical modelling of computer systems
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 322

 To enable the students to develop new queueing analysis for both
simple and complex systems
 To appreciate the use of smart scheduling and introduce the
students to analytical techniques for evaluating scheduling policies
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Simulation:
Inventory Concept: The technique of Simulation, Major application areas,
concept of a System, Continuous and discrete systems, Systems
modeling, types of models, Progress of a Simulation Study, Monte Carlo
Method, Comparison of Simulation and Analytical Methods.
UNIT II
Applications:
Discrete-Time Markov Chains, Ergodicity Theory, Real World Examples,
Google, Aloha, Transition to Continuous-Time Markov Chain, M/M/1
and PASTA.
UNIT III
Queueing Analysis:
Server Farms: M/M/k and M/M/k/k, Capacity Provisioning for Server
Farms, Time Reversibility and Burke’s Theorem, Networks of Queues and
Jackson Product Form, Classed and Closed Networks of Queues.
UNIT IV
Matrix Analytic Methods:
Case Study of Real-world Workloads, Phase-Type Distributions and
Matrix-Analytic Methods, Networks with Time-Sharing Servers, M/G/1
Queue and the Inspection Paradox, Task Assignment Policies for Server
Farms.
UNIT V
Scheduling Policies:
Performance Metrics, Scheduling, Non-Preemptive and Preemptive Non-
Size-Based Policies, Scheduling Non- Preemptive and Preemptive Size-
Based Policies, Scheduling, SRPT and Fairness.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Identify the technique for discrete and continuous models
CO2: Discuss open and closed queueing networks
CO3: Apply the operational laws to open and closed systems
CO4: Use discrete-time and continuous-time Markov chains to model real
world systems
CO5: Develop analytical techniques for evaluating scheduling policies
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 323

CO6: Analyze the performance metrics of scheduling policies
Textbooks:
1. Mor Harchol-Balter, “Performance Modeling and Design of Computer
Systems–Queueing Theory in Action”, Cambridge University Press,
2013
Reference Books:
1. Lieven Eeckhout, “Computer Architecture Performance Evaluation
Methods”, Springer, 2010
2. A. M. Law, W. D. Kelton, “Simulation Modelling and Analysis”, Fifth
Edition, McGraw Hill, 2014
Course Title High Performance Computing
Course Code (Credit) CS30005 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS21002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the concept of advanced pipelining techniques
 To understand the current state of art in memory system design
 To know the working principle of I/O devices
 To understand the memory management techniques
Course Contents:
UNIT I:
Introduction, Classes of computers, Defining Computer Architecture,
Trends in Technology, Trends in Power and Energy in Integrated Circuits,
Trends in Cost, Dependability, Measuring, Reporting and Summarizing
Performance, Quantitative Principles of Computer Design
UNIT II:
Basic and Intermediate pipelining Concepts, The Major Hurdle of
Pipelining, Pipeline Hazards, Pipelining Implementation, Implementation
issues that makes Pipelining hard, Extending the MIPS Pipeline to Handle
Multicycle Operations, The MIPS R4000 Pipeline.
UNIT III:
Instruction, Level Parallelism: Concepts and Challenges, Basic Compiler
Techniques for Exposing ILP, Reducing Branch Costs with Prediction,
Overcoming Data Hazards with Dynamic Scheduling, Dynamic
Scheduling, Hardware, Based Speculation, Exploiting ILP Using Multiple
Issue and Static Scheduling, Exploiting ILP, Advanced Techniques for
Instruction Delivery and Speculation, Studies of the Limitations of ILP.
UNIT IV:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 324

Vector Architecture, SIMD Instruction Set Extensions for Multimedia,
Graphics Processing Units, Detecting and Enhancing Loop-Level
Parallelism, Centralized Shared-Memory Architectures, Performance of
Shared-Memory Multiprocessors, Distributed Shared Memory, Models of
Memory Consistency, Multicore Processors and their Performance.
UNIT V:
Review of Memory Hierarchy Design, Cache Performance, Basic Cache
Optimizations, Virtual Memory, Protection and Examples of Virtual Memory,
Advanced Optimizations of Cache Performance, Memory Technology and
Optimizations, Protection: Virtual Memory and Virtual Machines,
Crosscutting Issues: The Design of Memory Hierarchies, Case Studies / Lab
Exercises.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1 : Choose performance metrics to find the performance of systems
CO2 : Identify the program block that requires parallelism for any program
CO3: Comprehend the concept of different types of hazards along with
theistructural implementation and applications.
CO4: Elaborate the criteria to enhance the performance of the pipelined
processors.
CO5: Design algorithms for memory management techniques for
multiprocessor system
CO6: Identify various parallel architecture like centralized anddistributed
memory architecture require for real life application
Textbooks:
2. David. A. Patterson, John L. Hennessy, “Computer Architecture: A
Quantitative approach”, Sixth Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2012.
Reference Books:
3. Carl Hamacher, Zvonko Vranesic, Safwat Zaky, Naraig Manjikian,
“Computer Organization and Embedded Systems”, Sixth Edition,
McGraw Hill Inc, 2022.
4. William Stallings “Computer Organization and Architecture”,
Eleventh Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.
Course Title Machine Learning
Course Code (Credit) CS31002 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-1-0-4)
Course Objectives:
 To provide a broad survey of different machine learning approaches
and techniques
 To understand the principles and concepts of machine learning
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 325

 To understand neural networks concepts
 To learn regression and reinforcement learning
 To develop programming skills that helps to build real world
applications based on machine learning
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Introduction: Machine learning: What and why? Types of Machine Learning,
Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning, The Curse of dimensionality,
Over and under fitting, Model selection, Error analysis and validation,
Parametric vs. non-parametric models.
UNIT II
Machine Learning:
Types of Machine Learning, Supervised Learning, Classification models,
Naïve Bayes Classifier, Decision trees, Support Vector Machines, KNN model,
Dimensionality reduction, PCA.
UNIT III
Clustering:
Clustering approaches, Mean Shift clustering, Clustering data points and
features, Bi-clustering, Multi-view clustering, K-Means clustering, K-
medians clustering, Expectation Maximization (EM).
UNIT IV
Neural Networks:
Neural networks, Biological motivation for Neural Network, Neural network
Representation, Perceptron, Feed forward networks, Multilayer Networks
and Back Propagation Algorithms, Hidden layer representation, Application
of neural network.
UNIT V
Applications and Tools:
Linear models for regression, Reinforcement Learning, Machine Learning
Tools, Engineering applications.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of the course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Solve typical machine learning problems
CO2: Compare and contrast different data representation to facilitate
learning
CO3: Apply the concept of regression methods, classification methods and
clustering methods.
CO4: Suggest supervised /unsupervised machine learning approaches for
any application
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 326

CO5: Implement algorithms using machine learning tools
CO6: Design and implement various machine learning algorithms in a
range of real-world applications.
Textbooks:
3. Kevin P. Murphy, “Probabilistic Machine Learning”, The MIT Press,
2023.
4. Ethem Alpaydin, “Introduction to Machine Learning”, Fourth Edition,
MIT Press, 2010.
Reference Books:
4. Laurene Fausett, “Fundamentals of Neural Networks, Architectures,
Algorithms and Applications”, Pearson Education, 2008.
5. C. M. Bishop, “Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning”, Springer,
2007.
6. Simon Haykin, “Neural Networks and Learning Machines”, Pearson
2008.
Course Title Distributed Operating Systems
Course Code (Credit) CS30009 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20002
Course Objectives:
 To understand the fundamentals of distributed system
 To be able to know the basic concepts of shared memory
architecture
 To be able to understand various implementation difficulties of
distributed operating systems
 To be able to understand transparency in distributed operating
systems
Course Contents:
UNIT-I
Fundamentals of Distributed Systems:
Introduction to distributed systems, Goals of Distributed Systems, Hardware
Concepts, Software Concepts, Design Issues, Network Operating Systems,
True Distributed System and Time sharing Multiprocessor Operating
System, System Architectures.
UNIT-II
Communication in Distributed Systems:
Basics of Communication Systems, Layered Protocols, ATM Models, Client
Server Model, Blocking Primitives and Non Blocking Primitives, Buffered
Primitives and Unbuffered Primitives, Reliable and Unreliable primitives,
Message Passing, Remote Procedure Call.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 327

UNIT-III
Synchronization and Processes:
Clock Synchronization, Mutual Exclusion, Election Algorithm, Atomic
Transactions, Deadlock in Distributed Systems, Process and Threads,
System Models, Processor Allocation, Process Scheduling.
UNIT-IV
Consistency, Replication and Fault Tolerance:
Data Centric Consistency Models, Client-Centric Consistency Models,
Replica Management, Consistency protocols, Fault Tolerance, Process
Resilience, Distributed Commit, Reliable Client Server Communication,
Reliable Client Server Communication.
UNIT-V
Overview of shared memory:
Architecture, Algorithm, Protocols, Design Issues, consistency model, Page
based Distributed Shared Memory, Shared variable Distributed shared
Memory, and Object based Distributed Shared Memory.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Assess the concept of Distributed Operating Systems
CO2: Enlist the communication techniques in Distributed Operating
Systems
CO3: Determine the clock synchronous concepts and algorithms
CO4: Examine the distributed system that fulfills requirements with
regards to key distributed systems properties
CO5: Discuss distributed shared memory architectures and algorithms
CO6: Analyze the distributed files systems
Textbooks:
2. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, “Distributed Operating Systems”, Pearson
Education, 1995.
Reference Books:
3. G. Coulouris, J. Dollimore, and T. Kindberg, “Distributed Systems:
Concepts & Design”, Pearson Publication, 4th Edition,2005.
4. Pradeep K. Sinha, “Distributed Operating Systems Concepts and
Design”, PHI, 1998.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 328

Course Title VLSI Circuits and System
Course Code (Credit) EC30005 (L-T-P-Cr:3-0-03)
Course Objective:
The VLSI design course aims for students to learn fundamental theories and
techniques of digital VLSI Circuits & Systems using CMOS technology, and
layout, about the digital integrated circuits domain. In addition, the course
aims to enable students to analyze and design different VLSI architectures
using the fundamental concepts of digital VLSI systems.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction to VLSI:
VLSI Design Methodology, VLSI Design Flow, VLSI Design Hierarchy, VLSI
Design Styles.
UNIT II
MOSFET:
Two terminal MOS Structure, MOS Structure under external Bias Condition,
Derivation of Threshold Voltage and its components, MOSFET structure
and its Qualitative Analysis, MOSFET Current-Voltage Relationship and its
Characteristics, MOSFET Scaling and short geometry effects (only
qualitative)
UNIT III
Inverter DC & Switching Characteristics:
Inverter Noise Margin, CMOS Inverter DC Characteristics and its analysis,
Delay time definitions, derivation of pHL, pLH for CMOS Inverter, super
buffer ,Power dissipations in CMOS, Interconnect Parameters- Resistance,
Capacitance, Inductance, Lumped RC Model, Distributed RC Model.
UNIT IV
CMOS Combinational circuits:
CMOS NAND and NOR Gate and their qualitative analysis with sizing,
CMOS Complex Logic Circuit, , logical efforts, NMOS and PMOS as Pass
transistor, PTL and CMOS Transmission Gate based logic circuit, Stick
Diagram and layout of Inverter & Complex logic Circuit
UNIT V
High performance CMOS logic and Sequential logic Circuits:
Dynamic Logic Concept, Synchronous Dynamic Logic Circuits (Domino and
NOR logic Circuit), Bistable Circuit, SR Latch, Clocked Latch and Flip Flop
Circuits.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 329

VLSI Subsystem:
Approach to digital system design, Adder(CMOS, TG,PTL based) Multiplier,
SRAM (6T) 5.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: understand VLSI design flow, design strategy and role of different
methods for chip design
CO2: apply knowledge to estimate different parameters of MOS
transistor.
CO3: analyze different performance metrics of CMOS inverter circuit
CO4: create combinational circuits for different logic design expressions
using CMOS style
CO5: analyze different CMOS sequential circuits.
CO6: create different VLSI sub-systems like adder, multiplier, etc.
Textbooks:
1. CMOS digital integrated circuits by Sung –Mo KANG Y. Lebeleci, 4th
edition, Mc-Graw Hill publications.
2. CMOS VLSI Design : A Circuits And Systems Perspective by Neil Weste,
David Harris, Pearson, 2023
Reference Books:
1. CMOS Circuit Design, Layout, Simulation R. Jacob baker, Harry W. Li,
David E Boyce,4th edition, Wiley publications.
2. VLSI Design Methodology Development by Thomas Dillinger, Pearson,
2020
Course Title Data Mining and Data Warehousing
Course Code (Credit) CS30013 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS20006
Course Objective:
 To understand the basic principles, concepts, applications of data
mining and data mining tools.
 To know the kinds of patterns discovered by association rule mining
algorithms
 To understand various classification and prediction algorithms
 To be able to apply data mining techniques on web, spatial, temporal,
text and multimedia data mining.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 330

Course Content:
UNIT I
Introduction to Data Mining Systems:
Knowledge Discovery Process, Data Mining Techniques, Issues, applications,
Data Objects and attribute types, Statistical description of data.
Data Preprocessing: Cleaning, Integration, Reduction, Transformation and
discretization, Data Visualization, Data similarity and dissimilarity
measures
UNIT II
Data Warehousing and Online Analytical Processing:
Basic Concepts, Data Warehousing Architecture, Multidimensional Data
Model, Data Warehouse Schemas for Decision Support, Building a Data
Warehouse , Concept Hierarchies, Characteristics of OLAP Systems, Typical
OLAP Operations, OLAP and OLTP.
UNIT III
Frequent Pattern Analysis:
Mining Frequent Patterns, Market Basket Analysis: The Apriori Algorithm:
Finding Frequent Itemsets Using Candidate Generation, Generating
Association Rules from Frequent Itemsets, Improving the Efficiently of
Apriori, Mining Frequent Itemsets without Candidate Generation, Measuring
the Quality of Rules, Association Mining to Correlation Analysis.
UNIT IV
Classification and Prediction:
Issues Regarding Classification and Prediction, Classification by Decision
Tree Introduction, Naïve Bayesian Classification, Rule Based Classification,
Classification by Back propagation, Support Vector Machines, Lazy
Learners, Other Classification Methods, Prediction: Simple linear regression,
Accuracy and Error Measures, Evaluating the Accuracy of a Classifier or
Predictor.
UNIT V
Clustering:
Types of Data in Cluster Analysis, A Categorization of Major Clustering
Methods, Partitioning Methods: K-Means, K-medoids, Hierarchical methods:
Agglomerative and Divisive Hierarchical Clustering, Density, Based Methods,
Grid-Based Methods, Model-Based Clustering Methods, Clustering High,
Dimensional Data.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 331

CO1: Compile the basic principles, concepts, applications of data mining
and familiar with mathematical foundations of data mining tools.
CO2: Interpret the fundamental concepts, benefits, operations associated
with data warehousing and develop data warehousing models.
CO3: Evaluate the kinds of patterns discovered by association rule mining
algorithms.
CO4: Analyze various classification and prediction algorithms for model
designing.
CO5: Apply various clustering algorithms to solve the real problems.
CO6: Adapt various data mining techniques on web, spatial, temporal, text
and multimedia data mining.
Textbooks:
2. J. Han and M. Kamber, “Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques”, 4th
Edition, Morgan Kaufman, 2015.
Reference Books:
4. M. H. Dunham, “Data Mining: Introductory and Advanced Topics”,
Pearson Education, 2006.
5. I. H. Witten and E. Frank, “Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning
Tools and Techniques,” Morgan Kaufmann, 2000.
6. D. Hand, H. Mannila and P. Smyth. Principles of Data Mining. The
MIT Press. 2001.
Course Title Robotics and Applications
Course Code (Credit) CS30027 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
 To provide an introduction to robotics including robot classification,
design and selection, analysis and applications in industry.
 To provide information on various types of actuators and sensors
 To provide the details of operations of kinematics and to gain
knowledge on programming of robots
 To perform the navigation of robots through map path planning-cell
decomposition
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Basic Concepts:
Introduction, Brief history, Components of robotics, Classifications of Robot,
workspace, Work-envelop, Motion of robotic arm, End-effectors and its
types, service robot, Laws of Robotics.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 332

UNIT II
Actuators and sensors:
Types of actuators, Stepper, DC, Servo and brushless motors model of DC
servo motor, Types of transmissions, Purpose of sensor, Internal and
external sensor, common sensors, Encoders tachometers, Strain gauge
based force torque sensor-proximity and distance measuring sensors.
UNIT III
Kinematics of robots:
Mathematical representation of Robots, position and orientation,
Representation of joints and frames, Frames transformation, Homogeneous
matrix, Denavit Hattenberg parameters, Forward and inverse kinematics:
two link planar (RR) and spherical robot (RRP). Mobile robot Kinematics:
Differential wheel mobile robot.
UNIT IV
Planning and Navigation:
Introduction, path planning, Overview, Road map path planning, Cell
decomposition path planning, Potential field path planning, Obstacle
avoidance-case studies
UNIT V
Vision System:
Robotic vision systems, Image representation, Object recognition and
categorization, Depth measurement, Image data compression, Visual
inspection, Software considerations
UNIT VI
Applications:
Ariel robots, Collision avoidance robots for agriculture, Mining, Exploration,
underwater, Civilian, and military applications, Nuclear applications, Space
applications, Industrial robots, Artificial intelligence in robots, Application of
robots in material handling, Continuous arc welding, Spot welding, Spray
painting, Assembly operation, Cleaning, etc.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Explain the basic working concepts of robots
CO2: Analyze the function of sensor in robot and design the robotic arm
with various tools
CO3: Program the robot for typical application and path planning of robot
using robotic vision
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 333

CO4: Make use of the various robot programming languages
CO5: Conduct and design the experiments for various robot operations
CO6: Use the advanced techniques for robot processing
Textbooks:
1. Robotic Engineering and Integrated Approach by RicharedD.Klafter.
Thomas A. Chmielewski and MickaelNegin, Prentice Hall India, New
Delhi, 2001
2. Saeed B.Nikku, “Introduction to Robotics, Analysis, Control and
Applications”, Third edition, Wiley, 2019
Reference Books:
1. Industrial robotic technology-programming and application by
M.P.Groover et.al, McGraw Hill, 2nd edition, 2017.
2. Robotics technology and flexible automation by S.R.Deb, Sankha
Deb,McGraw Hill, 2nd edition, 2017.
Course Title Embedded System
Course Code (Credit) EC30024 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objective:
To introduce students to the modern embedded systems and programming
skills to develop embedded system using PIC.
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Overview of Embedded System: Embedded Processor in System,
Components of Embedded System, Brief introduction to Embedded software
in system, Design Process in Embedded System, Programming methods for
Embedded System case study.
UNIT II
Embedded Hardware: Real world interfacing, Parallelism in instruction
level, Processor and memory selection, Memory organization, I/O Types:
Serial and Parallel communication Ports, Serial bus Communication
Protocols- I2C, CAN
UNIT III
Introduction to advanced Processor Architectures -Introduction to PIC
microcontroller (PIC18F), PIC architecture and assembly programming,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 334

Branch, call and delay loop, IO port programming, PIC arithmetic and logic
instructions, Interfacing with LCD, ADC, sensors, stepper motor, key board,
DAC
UNIT IV
RTOS(Real time operating System)- OS overview, Process, Interrupt and
memory management, RTOS overview, Basic Design rule using RTOS, Task
scheduling using Priority based scheduling, cyclic scheduling and round
robin scheduling, Case Study- RTOS μCOS-II
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Apply different design constraints for embedded systems.
CO2: Analyse criteria for selection of processors, memory and IO
system for embedded system design.
CO3: Apply standard communication protocols for embedded system.
CO4: Utilize programming skills to develop software for different
hardware requirements.
CO5: Develop PIC based system using Assembly/Embedded C coding.
CO6: Apply RTOS Concepts in Embedded System
Textbooks:-
1. PIC Microcontrollers and Embedded Systems using ALP and C for
PIC18F by M. A. Mazidi, R. D. McKinlay, D. Causey, Pearson, 2021.
2. Embedded Systems: Architecture, Programming & Design, Raj Kamal,
TMH, 2011
Reference Book:
1. Embedded System Design: A unified Hardware/ Software Introduction,
by Frank Vahid, Willey, 2011.
2. Design with PIC Microcontrollers , J. B. Peatman, Pearson India,2008
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 335

OPEN ELECTIVE COURSES (OE)
Course Title Software Engineering Fundamentals
Course Code (Credit) CS30018 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To know software process models
 To understand application of software process models
 To be able to know requirements of the software projects
 To apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
 To be able to distinguish different testing methodologies
Course Contents:
Unit I
Software Process Models:
Software product, Software crisis, Handling complexity through Abstraction
and Decomposition, Overview of software development activities. Process
Models: Classical waterfall model, Iterative waterfall model, Prototyping
model, Evolutionary model, Spiral model, RAD model. Agile models: Extreme
programming and Scrum. Software Requirement Engineering
Unit II
Software Requirement Engineering:
Requirement Gathering and analysis, Functional and non functional
requirements, Software Requirement Specification(SRS) , IEEE 830
guidelines, Decision tables and trees.
Unit III
Software Project Management:
Responsibilities of a Software project manager, Project planning, Metrics for
project size estimation, Project estimation techniques, Empirical estimation
techniques, COCOMO models, Scheduling, Organization & team structure,
Staffing, Risk management, Software configuration management.
Unit IV
Structural Analysis & Design:
Overview of design process: High level and detailed design, Cohesion &
coupling, Modularity and layering, Function–Oriented software design:
Structural Analysis, Structural Design (DFD and Structured Chart), Object
Oriented Analysis & Design, Command language, menu and iconic
interfaces.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 336

Unit V
Testing Strategies:
Coding, Code Review, Documentation, Testing:, Unit testing, Black-box
Testing, White-box testing, Cyclomatic complexity measure, Coverage
analysis, Debugging, Integration testing, System testing, Regression testing.
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Elaborate on different software process models
CO2: Evaluate the requirements of the software projects.
CO3: Apply the basic project management practices in real life projects.
CO4: Translate the baseline requirement specifications into design process.
CO5: Distinguish different testing methodologies.
CO6: Work ethically in a team on software projects
Textbooks:
3. Fundamentals of Software Engineering, Rajib Mall, PHI, Latest edition.
Reference books:
5. Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, Roger S. Pressman,
Eighth edition, MGH.
6. Software Engineering, Ian Sommerville, Tenth Edition, Pearson
Education.
Course Title Essentials of Computer Science
Course Code (Credit) CS30020 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To make the student understand the basic building blocks of a
computing system
 To make the student understand the flow of Concept- Program-Input-
Processing-Output
 To introduce low level language, translators, operating system
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Concept, Program, Input, Processing – Output:
Demo of simple high level language program to low level machine level
language program, Tracing their execution from high level to circuit level/
gate level, Overview of the Hardware Description Language (HDL),
Designing a set of elementary logic gates from primitive NAND gates. Design
of binary adders, Culminating in the construction of a simple ALU
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 337

(Arithmetic–Logic Unit) using logic gates, Design of memory hierarchy from
elementary flip–flop gates to registers and RAM units of arbitrary sizes
using logic gates.
UNIT II
Introduction to Low Level Language:
Introducing an instruction set in both binary and assembly (symbolic)
versions, Writing some low-level assembly programs, Other details of
computer architecture, Basic language translation techniques: parsing,
symbol table, macro, assembly
UNIT III
Introduction to Virtual Machine:
The role of virtual machines in modern software architectures like Java
and .NET, Introduction of a typical VM language, Focusing on stack–based
arithmetic, Logical and memory access operations, VM abstraction and
implementation, Focusing on stack-based flow-of-control and subroutine
call-and-return techniques.
UNIT IV
Introduction to Compilers:
Context-free grammars and recursive parsing algorithms, Building a
syntax analyzer (tokenizer and parser), The syntax analyzer to generate
XML code reflecting the structure of the translated program, Code
generation, Low- level handling of arrays and objects.
UNIT V
Introduction to OS:
Discussion of OS/hardware and OS/software design trade–offs, and
time/space efficiency considerations, Design and implementation of OS,
memory management, string processing, I/O handling algorithms.
Course Outcomes:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Trace the fundamentals of digital logic design
CO2: Classify programming languages
CO3: Explore the use of compiler
CO4: Generate low level code for simple programs
CO5: Understand functionality of an operating systems
CO6: Design simple arithmetic and memory units
Textbooks:
3. Noam Nisan, Shimon Schocken, “The Elements of Computing
System: Building a Modern Computer from First Principles”, MIT
Press, 2005.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 338

Course Title Object Oriented Programming
Course Code (Credit) CS30022 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Pre-requisites CS13001
Course Objectives
 To understand the difference between structure-oriented and
object-oriented programming
 To know various object-oriented features
 To know exception handling and generic programming
 To test and debug solutions in C++
Course Contents:
Unit I
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming:
Object oriented programming concepts: Objects, Classes, Encapsulation and
abstraction, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Dynamic binding, Message passing;
C++ Programming basics: Character set, Keyword, Constant, Variable, Data
types, Operator & expression, Control structure (branching & looping),
typecasting, Array & strings, Streams based I/O, Type conversions and
casting, Name space, Scope resolution operator (::); Function: Parameter
passing (i) by value, (ii) by address, (iii) by reference, Inline function,
Function overloading, Default arguments.
Unit II
Class and Object:
Class and Object: Defining class with functions and data members, Creating
& deleting objects by using new and delete operators respectively, Array of
Objects, Objects as function argument, Static Data members and member
functions, Function with default arguments, Function overloading;
Constructor and Destructors: Definition of constructors and its uses, Types
of constructors: Default constructor, Parameterized constructor, Copy
constructor, Constructor with dynamic allocation, Dynamic Constructors,
Constructor Overloading, Destructors.
Unit III
Inheritance:
Concept of inheritance: Defining derived and base classes, Class hierarchies,
public, private, and protected derivations; Types of Inheritance: Single
Inheritance, Multilevel Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Hierarchical
Inheritance, Hybrid Inheritance, Virtual base class: Function overriding,
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 339

Constructors/Destructors in derived classes: Constructors invocation and
data members initialization in derived classes, Member classes: classes
within classes.
Unit IV
Polymorphism:
Operator overloading: Overloading unary operators, Binary operators,
overloading binary operators using friend function and member function,
Rules for overloading operators; Polymorphism: Introduction to pointers:
Pointers to objects, Pointer to derived class object, This pointer, Compile
time polymorphism: Review of Function Overloading and Operator
overloading; Run time polymorphism: Virtual functions, Pure virtual
functions, Abstract class, Virtual constructors and destructors
Unit V
Exception Handling, Templates, Files and Streams:
Exception Handling: Basics of Exception Handling, Exception Handling
Mechanism: The keyword try, Throw and catch. Templates: Need of
template, Class Templates: Definition, Class Template with multiple
parameters, Function Templates: Definition, Function Template with
multiple parameters. Files and Streams: Introduction to file handling: text
file Vs. binary file, Hierarchy of file stream classes: Functions of File Stream
classes, Steps to process a File in a program. Different functions used in file,
File modes(Sequential and random), File pointers and their Manipulations,
Error handling during file operation
Course Outcome:
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Compare the features between structure-oriented and object-oriented
programming
CO2: Develop object-oriented programming language like C++ and
associated libraries to develop object-oriented programs.
CO3: Apply various object-oriented features like class, object, inheritance,
data abstraction, encapsulation polymorphism to solve various computing
problems
CO4: Design application using operator-overloading, contracture and
destructor
CO5: Apply exception handling and use built-in classes from STL
CO6: Implement, test and debug solutions in C++.
Textbooks:
5. Object Oriented Programming with C++, Reema Thareja, OXFORD
University Press, Revised First Edition, 2018.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 340

6. Object Oriented Programming with C++, E.Balaguruswamy, McGraw
Hill Education; Seventh edition 2017.
Reference Books :
7. C++ completes reference, Herbert Schildt, MGH, 10th Edition, 2002
8. C++ How to Program, Deitel and Deitel, Pearson Education, 10th
Edition, 2011.
9. Programming in C++ Ashok N Kamthane, Pearson Education, 2nd
Edition, 2003
Course Title Fundamentals of Data Structures
Course Code (Credit) CS30024 (L-T-P-Cr: 3-0-0-3)
Course Objectives:
 To find the Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
 To understand the various techniques of sorting and searching
 To design and implement arrays, stacks, queues, and linked lists
 To understand the complex data structures such as trees and graphs
 To solve real life problems
Course Contents:
UNIT I
Introduction:
Development of Algorithms, Notations and analysis, Storage structures for
arrays, Sparse matrices, Stacks and Queues: Representations and
applications.
UNIT II
Linked List, Stacks, and Queues:
Linked Lists, Linked stacks and queues, Operations on polynomials, Doubly
linked lists, Circularly linked lists, Dynamic storage management, Garbage
collection and compaction.
UNIT III
Trees:
Tree representation, Binary Trees, Binary search trees, Tree traversal,
Expression manipulation, Symbol table construction, Height balanced trees,
AVL trees.
UNIT IV
Graphs:
Graphs, Representation of graphs, BFS, DFS, Topological sort, String
representation and manipulations, Pattern matching.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 341

Course Outcomes
Upon completion of this course, the students will be able to:
CO1: Use the concepts of data structure, data type and abstract data type
to develop solutions for engineering problems.
CO2: Develop programs to implement linear data structures such as
stacks, queues, linked lists, etc.
CO3: Apply the concept of trees and graph data structures in real world
scenarios
CO4: Comprehend the implementation of sorting and searching algorithms
CO5: Compare Time Complexity and Space Complexity for algorithm
CO6: Effectively choose the data structure that efficiently models the
information in a problem.
Textbooks:
7. J. P. Tremblay, P. G. Sorenson, “An Introduction to Data
Structures with Applications”, Second Edition, Tata McGraw Hill,
1981.
8. M. Tenenbaum, Augestien, “Data Structures using C”, Third Edition,
Pearson Education, 2007.
9. Mark Allen Weiss, “Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in
C”, Third Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2006.
Reference Book:
3. Sartaj Sahni, “Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++”,
Universities Press (I) Pvt. Ltd., 2008.
School of Computer Engineering Curriculum KIITDUCSE22 Page 342

KIIT Deemed to be University
At / P.O.:-KIIT, Bhubaneswar-751024, Odisha, India
Ph: + 91 2725113, 2741998, Fax: +91 2740326, E.mail: kiit@kiit.ac.in, Website:www.kiit.ac.in